---
description: viGlobal Health& Safety Policy
---

# 02. Health & Safety Policy

## 1. GENERAL

VIDESKTOP Inc. \(“vi”\) has implemented this Health & Safety Policy \(the “Policy”\) as part of its commitment to provide and maintain a healthy and safe work environment for all employees, contractors, agents, and visitors to our workplace. Vi has made a commitment to abide by Ontario’s Occupational Health and Safety Act and regulations \(the” OHSA”\) as amended, and will put in place certain rules, policies and procedures in order to ensure the health and safety of its employees.

All employees are required to observe and comply with the OHSA, and with all Company safety rules, policies and procedures at all times and are required to report any potential health or safety hazards and all injuries and accidents to their manager immediately.

The Company provides information and training to all employees, as part of its Health and Safety Program, including training on workplace violence and harassment. This Policy applies to all employees, contractors, students, volunteers at any location where an employee works or is engaged in work or work-related activities for vi.

## 2. JOINT HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE

Vi shall establish a Joint Health and Safety Committee \(“JHSC”\) to assist in the implementation and management of this Policy.  The membership of the committee shall be comprised of at least two \(2\) persons.  One of the JHSC members must be an employee who does not exercise management functions.  The other member, must be a representative of management.  The composition of the JHSC, as may be revised from time to time, will be posted in the workplace.

Employees who have health and safety concerns are advised to speak to a member of the JHSC immediately.

## 3. POSTING

A copy of this Policy, a copy of the OHSA, a composition of the JHSC, and vi’s written commitment to maintaining a health and safe workplace must be posted on the bulletin board by the main door to the office, at all times. Additional copies of this Policy are available to all employees at any time.

## 4. EMPLOYEE RESPOSIBILITIES FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY

### a\) All Employees

All employees including members of management, and all contractors and agents are required to familiarize themselves with this Policy, abide by it, and take all necessary steps to promote and maintain a healthy and safe workplace. In general, the following principle and responsibilities apply and must be maintained:

* Make a consistent and continuous effort to prevent workplace accidents and maintain the workplace in a safe condition. 
* Work safely and in compliance with accepted work practices, procedures and legislated health and safety standards. 
* Follow the requirements set out in this Policy, and all other vi policies which promote safe working practices and procedures. 
* Maintain a tidy work area, free of hazards. 
* Report any hazards or unsafe working conditions, objects or areas in the workplace, after taking any appropriate remedial actions. 
* Report any known contraventions of this Policy to vi. 
* If applicable, wear all required personal protective equipment as may be required. 
* Report ALL accidents, injuries, incidents and near misses to vi and the JHSC. 
* Report ALL instances of workplace violence or harassment, no matter what the severity may be to vi.

### b\) Management Responsibilities

Vi’s management team will abide by these additional requirements:

* Ensure this Policy is reviewed at least once a year and that an implementation program is in place. 
* Ensure vi remains complaint with the OHSA and all related laws and regulations. 
* Provide support and assistance to the JHSC to facilities its maintenance and administration of this Policy including: 
  * Providing the JHSC with any information known to vi relevant to health and safety matters or any risks in the workplace.
  * Responding to the JHSC’s recommendations. 
  * Providing the JHSC with copies of all orders and reports issued by the Ministry of Labour and the results of any workplace accidents, harassment and violence risk assessments or reports. 
  * Providing resources and funds to enable the JHSC to carry out its responsibilities. 
* Vi’s office is adequately maintained and hazards are identified and corrected. 
* A copy of this Policy, the OHSA, and all explanatory material outlining the rights, responsibilities and duties of employees are posted in the workplace. 
* Posting the names of JHSC members in the workplace. 
* Appropriate authorities are notified and reports are submitted pursuant to statutory reporting requirements. 
* Ensuring employees receive adequate assistance and support in the event of a medical emergency 
* Reports of accidents, injuries, and workplace violence or harassment are reviewed and, where appropriate, investigated by vi or an independent third party, and reported to the JHSC, as applicable.
* Ensuring any unsafe work refusals are investigated, and no reprisals are made.

### c\) JHSC Responsibilities

The JHSC shall ensure that:

* This Policy is: 
  * Compliant with statutory requirements 
  * Posted in a prominent location in the workplace 
  * Effectively communicated to each employee 
  * Reviewed annually and revised as necessary 
* A workplace violence risk assessment is conducted and reassessed thereafter as necessary. 
* An appropriate health and safety program is developed, implemented and maintained in accordance with the OHSA to implement this Policy.
* Health and safety meetings are held at least once every three months. 
* A safety inspection of the office is carried out monthly and that safe and healthy work conditions are promoted and maintained. 
* Employees are informed of this Policy and receive training to enable them to perform their work in compliance with accepted safe work practices and procedures. 
* Employees are notified of any potential hazards that may exist in or around the workplace. 
* Appropriate recommendations are made for the improvement of health and safety practices and employees’ well-being to vi’s Management team. 
* A workplace violence risk assessment is conducted and reassessed thereafter as necessary.

## 5. VIOLENCE IN THE WORKPLACE

Vi maintains a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to workplace violence. Violent behaviour or threats of violence of any kind, where there is an implied or direct intent to inflict harm or injury to another person, will not be tolerated.

Workplace violence refers to the attempted or actual exercise of physical force against an employee or any threatening statement or conduct that gives an employee reason to believe that physical force will be used against them. Examples of workplace violence include, but are not limited to: threats of physical harm, psychological attacks, harassment, intimidation, fighting, assault, sexual assault, forcible confinement, possession of a dangerous weapon, destruction of property and robbery.

Vi is committed to providing its employees with a workplace that is free from violence. All employees, are required to conduct themselves in a professional manner on company premises or while performing work on behalf of vi, and refrain from violent behavior at all times.

An employee who exhibits violent behaviour may be subject to criminal prosecution, in addition to being subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Violence, or threats of violence by non-employees that may impact vi’s employees is also not tolerated. Vi will act in its employees' best interests to protect them from violence by non-employees.

Domestic violence that originates in an employee's personal life, but which may carry over into an employee's work life is also not acceptable. Such behaviour may include stalking, incessant phone calls, threatening the employee or their co-workers or any other form of harassment. If such behaviour is observed at the company, the police will be contacted and appropriate injunctions obtained.

All workplace parties have a role in preventing workplace violence. Vi has taken steps to identify potential sources of violence in the workplace and will train its workforce on the controls and procedures that have been implemented to eliminate or minimize any risk. Any reported incident of violence will be investigated and appropriate corrective measures will be taken to avoid future incidents.

Management is responsible for promoting a workplace free from violence, ensuring that employees are aware of the violence prevention measures that pertain to their work, and enforcing this Workplace Violence Policy. Employees are responsible for working in compliance with this Workplace Violence Policy and reporting any incidents of workplace violence to vi.

Vi has developed specific measures to implement this Workplace Violence Policy, including procedures for controlling workplace violence risks, for employees to summon assistance if a violent incident occurs, and for reporting a violent incident to the Company. The following procedures have been established by vi:

### a\) Risk Assessments

Vi, in coordination with the JHSC, will conduct regular hazard assessments to identify potential workplace hazards in the workplace, including risks of violence in the workplace and will implement various controls and procedures to eliminate or minimize the potential for violence in the workplace.

### b\) Training

Vi will ensure that its employees receive violence prevention training regarding:

* The potential risks for violence in the workplace. 
* The workplace violence hazards particular to their job function. 
* The Workplace Violence Policy and related procedures. 
* How to summon emergency assistance. 
* How to report incidents of violence to vi. 

Employees will receive this training as part of their orientation and whenever the risk of violence or the violence controls associated with their job duties have changed. 

### c\) Information to employees 

If an employee is expected to encounter a person with a history of violence in the course of performing their job duties, vi will provide the employee with the information reasonably necessary to protect the employee from risk associated with that person, including where there is a potential risk associated with domestic violence.

### d\) Emergency Assistance Procedures

Employees must remove themselves as quickly as possible from any situation where violence has occurred or is imminently likely to occur. The employee should summon immediate assistance by contacting Building Security. In cases of imminent physical violence, or where the circumstances warrant police involvement, the employee should contact emergency services by dialing 9-1-1.

Victims who are injured as a result of workplace violence should seek immediate medical assistance and must notify a member of Management as soon as possible.

### e\) Reporting a Violent Incident

Any employee who believes they \(or others\) may be exposed to violence in the workplace, including potential domestic violence, should notify their immediate supervisor as soon as possible. This will allow vi to take reasonable steps for the protection of the employee.

Any employee who is the subject of workplace violence or otherwise becomes aware of an incident of workplace violence is required to report the matter, as soon as possible, to their manager. Vi will take steps to ensure the safety of parties involved and either attempt to informally resolve the matter to the mutual satisfaction of both the victim and perpetrator \(if appropriate\) or initiate the violent incident investigation procedure. If the conduct involves their supervisor, the employee should contact another member of the Management team.

Any person, whether an employee or a third party, who makes a violent threat or engages in a violent act will be removed or barred from the workplace, pending the outcome of an investigation.

### f\) Violent Incident Investigations

If a supervisor cannot informally resolve the incident to the mutual satisfaction of both the victim and the alleged perpetrator, vi will conduct a formal investigation into the incident in accordance with its Internal Complaint and Investigation Procedure, as set out in the Employee Handbook.

Vi is committed to investigating reported incidents of violence in a timely, impartial and objective manner. The violent incident investigation may be conducted by a neutral third party in vi’s discretion, or as may otherwise be required depending on the circumstances.

Both the complainant and the alleged perpetrator will be required to participate in the investigation. Confidentiality will be maintained, as strictly as possible and consistent with the needs of the investigation. However, vi cannot ensure that every violent incident investigation will be completely confidential. Vi will make best efforts to ensure that any confidential information is only disclosed for the purpose of the investigation, as required to take corrective action, or as required by law.

After completion of the investigation, an investigation report will be created, summarizing the investigation and the corrective measures taken. A copy of \(or a summary of\) the investigation report, will be provided to the JHSC, which shall treat the report as confidential.

The involved parties will be notified of the outcome of the investigation. If the violent incident is substantiated, reasonable corrective action will be taken to prevent future incidents, in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

No reprisal or penalty will be taken against anyone who either brings forward a violent incident complaint in good faith or participates in a violent incident investigation, even if the complaint is later found to be unfounded. However, any employee who makes a violent incident complaint maliciously or without a reasonable and probable basis will be subject to discipline, in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 6. INFLUENZA AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES

Employees who are infected with a contagious virus or infectious disease are required to seek medical attention immediately, and notify vi as soon as possible after becoming aware of any contamination or infection, which may have led to possible exposure of vi employees or visitors to the office.

Employees who know or otherwise have a reasonable basis to suspect they may be infected with a contagious disease or virus are not permitted to attend vi’s office until they receive medical clearance from their doctor, which certifies they are no longer contagious and/or pose a threat to exposing others to the disease or virus.

Vi will seek guidance from qualified professionals and employ appropriate safeguards to protect its employees from unnecessary exposure to viruses and/or diseases in the workplace, on a case by case basis.

Vi shall respect the privacy of any affected individuals in accordance with legislative requirements, and as reasonably practicable, given the circumstances. However, public safety interests shall take precedence over privacy concerns, if there are competing considerations.

## 7. ACCIDENT AND INJURY REPORTING PROCEDURES

### a\) General Reporting Responsibilities

Every employee is responsible for immediately reporting a workplace injury, accident or illness, and near misses, to vi and to a member of the JHSC, including an injury resulting from workplace violence. In all cases, accident and/or injury reporting shall comply with all legislated requirements.

### b\) General Procedures Following Workplace Accident or Injury

In the event of a workplace accident or injury, vi shall ensure the following appropriate steps are taken, with the help of the JHSC:

* The JHSC is notified of the workplace accident or injury. 
* The accident or workplace injury is investigated, including at minimum: the nature of the accident, the parties involved, and any workplace hazards that may have contributed to the accident or injury.
* Affected parties \(including employees\) are notified of potential risks in the workplace. 
* Any workplace hazards are removed, if applicable, and adequate steps are taken to mitigate the possibility of further accidents or injuries of the same nature from taking place. 
* An accident or injury report is properly prepared, in a timely manner, and provided to the relevant parties, as may be required by the OHSA. 
* Review current risk assessments, policies and procedures, and advise employees as may be applicable, including providing additional health and safety training, to decrease the likelihood of a recurrence of a similar accident or injury from taking place in the future.

### c\) Workplace Fatality or Critical Injury

For the purpose of clarity, “Critical injury” means an injury of a serious nature that:

* Places life in jeopardy. 
* Produces unconsciousness. 
* Results in a substantial loss of blood. 
* Involves the fracture of a leg or arm, but not a finger or toe. 
* Involves the amputation of a leg, arm, hand or foot, but not a finger or toe.
* Consists of burns to a major portion of the body. 
* Causes the loss of sight in an eye.

In the event of a fatality or a critical injury to an employee, contractor, agent, or visitor to our workplace, the following additional procedures shall apply. The following also applies where an employee suffers a fatality or critical injury outside of the workplace, while on company business and performing workplace duties:

* The scene of the accident resulting in the workplace fatality or critical injury must be sealed off immediately and nothing within the scene shall be disturbed except for the purpose of saving life, relieving human suffering, or preventing unnecessary damage to equipment or other property until the scene is released by the Ministry of Labour. 
* The following parties are notified within the time period shown and in the manner set out opposite their title: 
  * The JHSC- immediately by telephone, facsimile, electronic communication or other direct means.
  * Ministry of Labour Safety Inspector — immediately by telephone, facsimile or other direct means.
  * Ministry of Labour Safety Director — within forty-eight \(48\) hours after the occurrence by written report in the manner prescribed by the OHSA. 

### d\) Non-Critical Workplace Injury

In the event of a workplace accident, explosion, or fire where an employee is disabled or requires medical attention and is unable to perform his/her regular duties, but where there is no critical injury, the following parties shall be notified in writing within the time period shown and in the manner set out opposite their title: 

* The JHSC — within four \(4\) days of the occurrence; in writing, containing such information and particulars as are prescribed. 
* Ministry of Labour Safety Director — if required by an Inspector, within four \(4\) days of the occurrence; in writing, containing such information and particulars as are prescribed.

### e\) Occupational Illnesses

If vi is advised by or on behalf of an employee or former employee, that the employee or former employee has an occupational illness or that a claim in respect of an occupational illness has been made by or on behalf of the employee or former employee, the following parties shall be notified within four \(4\) days of first learning of the occupational illness or claim for occupational illness; in writing, containing such information and particulars as are prescribed:

* Ministry of Labour Safety Director. 
* The JHSC.

## 8. INVESTIGATIONS

Vi will conduct investigations into all workplace accidents and injuries. However, the manner in which each investigation is conducted may vary depending on its circumstances. At minimum, each investigation shall include a review of: the nature of the accident, the parties involved, and any workplace hazards that may have contributed to the accident or injury.

The following considerations shall apply for each investigation into a workplace accident or injury:

* Workplace accidents or incidents that result in death or a critical injury including near-misses, or which result in significant property/equipment loss will be investigated immediately. 
* Accidents which do not result in death or critical injury, shall be conducted as soon as practicable, once the accident or injury is known to vi. 
* Vi will assign an individual or individuals to lead the investigation, as is appropriate, given the circumstances. 
* Vi may direct the JHSC to conduct the investigation. 
* Vi may direct an independent third-party to conduct the investigation. 
* Reports of any investigation shall be provided to the JHSC. 
* Vi and the JHSC shall retain copies of all investigation reports of accidents for a minimum of seven \(7\) years, or until it is apparent no legal action or regulatory investigation will ensue, whichever period is longer. 
* VI shall retain copies of all reports, orders and/or charges from any regulatory body for seven \(7\) years, and shall share such documents with the JHSC. 
* The JHSC shall maintain a list of recommendations and respective completion dates from all accident investigations \(including those recommended or ordered by a regulatory body\) and follow-up, as necessary, to ensure the appropriate recommendations are implemented, within mandated timelines as may be required.

## 9. EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND FIRE SAFETY

Vi, in conjunction with Building Management, has established emergency response procedures, and fire safety procedures, which are posted in the workplace, and made available to the Fire Department upon request. Employees are required to familiarize themselves with these procedures and with the locations of all fire alarm pull stations, auxiliary firefighting apparatus and building exits.

The JHSC conducts regular safety inspections, during which fire safety equipment including, pull stations, smoke detectors, fire hoses, and the sprinkler systems are checked. The JHSC will notify a member of management if there are any potential hazards, or if any such equipment is damaged or missing. Management or the JHSC will then notify all employees, and appropriate safety precautions will be implemented.

### a\) Fire Safety Drills

Vi participates in regular fire safety drills held by Building Management from time to time. All employees and other visitors to the workplace, are required to participate in these drills, and familiarize themselves with proper evacuation procedures and protocols, to be relied upon in case of an actual emergency. No one is permitted to remain in the workplace during a drill, and may not return until cleared by the Fire Department and/or Building Management.

The Fire Marshal, or designate, shall provide assistance to vi employees, including those who may require additional support or assistance, during any fire safety drill, and shall be responsible for ensuring proper evacuation procedures are implemented and followed in accordance with instructions from Building Management and/or the Fire Department.

### b\) General Evacuation and Safety Procedures

The emergency plan\(s\), are located in the workplace and posted at the main entrance to the office. All employees are required to familiarize themselves with the emergency plan\(s\) and in addition, are required to follow the foregoing best practices in the event of a fire or other emergency in the workplace that makes an evacuation necessary: 

* Upon discovery of fire, smoke or other emergency hazard, remain calm, and activate the fire alarm pull-station in order to alert everyone in the building to evacuate and to automatically summon the fire department. 
* Instruct anyone in the immediate area to evacuate the building and close all doors possible, especially to the room that the fire is located. 
* Where possible, notify the Fire Marshal and/or a member of the JHSC and a member of Building Management and dial 911, if safe to do so, reporting the location, nature and extent of the fire or emergency. 
* Once a fire alarm sounds, or an announcement to evacuate is made, the Fire Marshal, a designate, or members of the JHSC, must order the evacuation of the workplace. No one should remain in the office, except designated personnel, when safe to do so. 
* Leave the building. Close all doors on your way out and DO NOT USE ELEVATORS 
* Follow all instructions from Building Management, the Fire Marshal, a JHSC member, and emergency personnel. 
* Leave personal belongings behind, save and except for purses, wallets and small valuables. 
* Push chairs under desks and remove other obstructions, leaving clear passages. 
* Walk, do not run, to the designated exit and waiting area\(s\). 
* Remain outside the building until the emergency is over, in the designated waiting area\(s\). 
* Re-enter the building and return to the office in an organized fashion, only after being advised that it is safe to do so by Building Management, the Fire Marshal, a member of the JHSC, or a member of the Fire Department or other emergency personnel.

The Fire Marshal and members of the JHSC or designates, are required to follow the following additional best practices in the event of a fire or other emergency in the office: 

* Evacuate all personnel in their assigned groups through designated fire exits, and to their designated waiting areas. 
* Check all offices, storerooms or other auxiliary rooms, where employees may be, to ensure all employees have left the office and the office is clear. 
* Ensure that all employees who require special assistance to evacuate the premises are accounted for and have the support they need to exit the building safely. 
* Be aware of alternate exit routes for their assigned groups and check attendance at the designated meeting location. 
* Liaison with Building Management and emergency personnel, including advising them of all hazards, and identify any missing employees \(or those still in the building\), and any employees or other persons who require special assistance.

## 10. MEDICAL SUPPLIES

First aid kits are located in the office, in designated areas. Vi shall ensure that they remain fully stocked at all times. The JHSC shall inspect first aid kits regularly to ensure adequate first aid supplies are available, and replenish them as necessary.

Employees are required to notify a member of the JHSC when supplies are used and/or they see that supplies are running low and need to be replenished.

Vi does not supply medications to its employees, such as aspirin or cold remedies.

## 11. GENERAL SAFETY RULES

All employees are required to maintain safe working practices at all times in order to reduce the risk of accidents and injuries from taking place in the workplace.

All employees are required to follow the following general safety rules without exception:

* Be aware of all safety rules and procedures and abide by them at all times. 
* Remain complaint with this Policy, the OHSA and all additional safety regulations, rules, procedures and instructions. 
* Avoid overloading electrical outlets, and creating situations where loose wires can create tripping hazards. 
* Use caution when handling dangerous or flammable items, such as cleaning fluids. 
* Walk – don't run. 
* Ask for assistance when lifting heavy objects or moving large furniture. 
* Be aware of your surroundings, especially when working in your office outside of regular working hours. 
* Keep cabinet doors, filing cabinets, and desk drawers closed when not in use. 
* Tidy up garbage, or other articles or debris on floors in offices and hallways, and avoid all tripping hazards. 
* Notify a member of the JHSC when a workplace hazard is identified, including for example, loose wires, tripping hazards, or unsecured shelves or cabinets. 
* Sit firmly and squarely when seated, especially in chairs that roll or tilt. 
* Avoid horseplay or practical jokes.

Failure to follow these rules will result in disciplinary action in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 12. VISITORS TO THE OFFICE

To provide for the safety and security of employees, visitors and vi property, only authorized visitors are allowed in the office. Restricting unauthorized visitors helps ensure security, decreases insurance liability, protects confidential information, safeguards employee welfare and avoids potential distractions and disturbances. 

Authorized visitors will be escorted to their destination and must be accompanied by an employee at all times. 

## 13. PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT

Given the nature of vi’s operations, it is not likely that employees shall be required to wear any Personal Protective Equipment \(“PPEs”\). However, if required to do so, employees shall wear the assigned PPEs, in accordance with proper safety instructions and procedures.

## 14. TRAINING AND EDUCATION

Vi will provide its employees with health and safety awareness training and information, including training employees about their rights and responsibilities under the OHSA and this policy. Vi will also provide employees with information and training on identifying and reporting hazards in the workplace, and responding to incidents of workplace violence and harassment.

## 15. NO REPRISALS

No employees shall experience any reprisals or other unfair treatment for exercising their rights under the OHSA or otherwise performing their duties under this policy, including refusing unsafe work or reporting workplace hazards or instances of non-compliance of the OHSA or this policy.

## 16. CONSEQUENCES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY  

All employees are required to read and comply with the terms of this Policy at all times.

Any violation of this Policy, including but not limited to engaging in unsafe working practices, may be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause, in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 17. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The JHSC is responsible for the administration of this policy. If employees have questions regarding this policy, or about health and safety matters, that are not addressed in this policy, they may contact a member of the JHSC for more information.

This Policy will be reviewed, and revised if appropriate, at the earlier of: whenever there is a change that affects its effectiveness in ensuring a healthy and safe workplace, as required by the OHSA or other relevant legislation, or on an annual basis.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING AND ACCEPTANCE

I, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \(print employee name\), acknowledge that on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \(date\), I received a copy of vi’s Health and Safety Policy, and that I read it, understood it and agree to comply with it.  


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Signed

