---
description: viGlobal Workplace Harassment Policy
---

# 04. Workplace Harassment Policy

## 1. GENERAL

Vi recognizes the dignity and worth of every employee, and to that end believes in providing and maintaining a work environment in which all employees are free from workplace harassment. This policy applies to all employees and covers all forms of harassment prohibited by the Occupational Health and Safety Act \(the “OHSA”\) and the Human Rights Code \(the “Code”\).

## 2. DEFINITIONS

“Workplace” means any place where business or work-related activities are conducted. It includes, but is not limited to, the physical work premises, work-related social functions, work assignments outside the Company’s office, work-related travel, and work-related conferences or training sessions.

“Harassment” means engaging in a course of vexatious comments or conduct that is known, or ought reasonably be known, to be unwelcome.

Harassment, is inclusive of the following specific forms of harassment including:

* **“Discriminatory harassment”**, is/are acts, conduct or comments which target an individual or group of individuals based upon characteristics protected under the Code, including race, sex, colour, ancestry, place of origin, ethnic origin, same-sex partnership status, sexual orientation, age, disability, citizenship, family status or marital status, creed, gender identity or gender expression or any other factor that may be protected by the Code \(“Prohibited Grounds”\);
* **“Personal Harassment” or “Bullying”**, is/are vexatious or objectionable unwelcome conduct, comments, gestures or physical acts that are repeated or, if a single incident, the offending conduct is sufficiently serious to cause an employee to be humiliated or intimidated and/or adversely affect an employee’s psychological or physical well-being; and
* **“Sexual harassment”**, is defined as: \(a\) engaging in a course of vexatious comment or conduct against a worker in a workplace because of sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, where the course of comment or conduct is known or ought reasonably to be known to be unwelcome; or \(b\) making a sexual solicitation or advance where the person making the solicitation or advance is in a position to confer, grant or deny a benefit or advancement to the worker and the person knows or ought reasonably to know that the solicitation or advance is unwelcome.

## 3. POLICY STATEMENT

All employees have a right to work in an environment free from workplace harassment. To accomplish its goal of promoting a harassment free workplace, vi has establishes the following guidelines:

a\)  Vi will not tolerate harassing behaviour from employees, non-employees \(i.e. contractors, consultants, co-op students, customers, visitors, guests\) or any others in the workplace; and  

b\)  Every employee, non-employee \(i.e. contractors, consultants, co-op students, customers, visitors, guests\) will be made aware of this policy, and the Company will communicate its commitment to a harassment free workplace.  

Examples of discriminatory and personal harassment and bullying that will not be tolerated include:

* Humiliating an employee in front of co-workers;  
* Subjecting an individual to unwelcome remarks, gestures, or jokes;  
* Consistent subjection of an individual to practical jokes or ridicule;  
* The making of any work-related decision \(including matters of hiring, promoting, compensating,

  work assignments, evaluations, training, or job security\) not on the basis of merit, but on the

  basis of any of the Prohibited Grounds;  

* Comments which are intended, or that ought reasonably to be known to promote stereotyping

  on any of the Prohibited Grounds;  

* Jokes or comments which draw attention, for example, to a person’s disability, age, ethnic,

  racial, or religious background or affiliation, or which draw attention to a person’s gender or sexual orientation with the effect of undermining such person’s role in a professional or business environment or that by their nature are known or ought reasonably to be known to be embarrassing or offensive; and  

* Derogatory remarks, verbal abuse or threats.  

Examples of sexual harassment which will not be tolerated include:

* Propositions of physical intimacy;  
* Bragging about sexual prowess;  
* Leering or inappropriate staring;  
* Sexually degrading words or displays of suggestive pictures;  
* Inquiries or comments about a person’s sex life or sexual behaviour; and  
* Sexual jokes or stories causing embarrassment or offence, that are told or carried out after the

  person telling the story or joke has been advised that they are embarrassing or offensive or that by their very nature are known or ought reasonably to be known to be embarrassing or offensive.  

The lists above are illustrative only, and not exhaustive. However, harassment does not include the reasonable exercise of management functions in the workplace that relates to the management or direction of employees or the workplace itself. Performance reviews, work evaluations and reasonable disciplinary measures do not constitute harassment.

## 4. RESPONSIBILITIES

All workplace parties have a role to play in preventing workplace harassment and maintaining a harassment free workplace. All employees are responsible for working in compliance with this Workplace Harassment Policy and to report any incidents of harassment to vi promptly. Vi management personnel are responsible for providing a workplace that is free from harassment. This responsibility includes actively promoting a positive work environment and intervening when problems occur.

Vi will make every reasonable practicable effort to ensure that no employee is subjected to workplace harassment, and to provide training on this Policy. If vi becomes aware of a potential incident of harassment, it will investigate the incident in a fair, timely and confidential manner, in accordance with vi’s Internal Complaint and Investigation Procedure. Vi is committed to taking appropriate corrective measures to stop any harassment and avoid future incidents.

## 5. COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES

Any employee who believes he/she \(or others\) have been subjected to harassment in the workplace, should notify their immediate supervisor as soon as possible. If the conduct involves their supervisor, the employee should contact another member of the Management team. Vi will take steps to ensure the safety of parties involved and either attempt to informally resolve the matter to the mutual satisfaction of both the victim and perpetrator \(if appropriate\) or initiate a formal investigation into the harassment allegations. All allegations of sexual harassment will be investigated, notwithstanding any objections to the investigation from any affected party,

If a supervisor cannot informally resolve the incident to the mutual satisfaction of both the victim\(s\) and the alleged perpetrator\(s\), vi will conduct a formal investigation into the incident in accordance with its Internal Complaint and Investigation Procedure, as set out in the Employee Handbook.

Vi is committed to investigating reported incidents of harassment in a timely, impartial and objective manner. The harassment investigation may be conducted by a neutral third party in vi’s discretion, or as may otherwise be required by law.

Both the complainant\(s\) and the alleged perpetrator\(s\) will be required to participate in the investigation. Confidentiality will be maintained, as strictly as possible and consistent with the needs of the investigation. However, vi cannot ensure that every harassment investigation will be completely confidential. Vi will make best efforts to ensure that any confidential information is only disclosed for the purpose of the investigation, as required to take corrective action, or as required by law.

After completion of the investigation, an investigation report may be created, summarizing the investigation and the corrective measures taken. This report may be shared with vi’s Joint Health and Safety Committee \(the “JHSC”\), depending on the nature of the harassment allegations and the outcome of the investigation.

The involved parties will be notified of the outcome of the investigation. If the allegations of harassment are substantiated, reasonable corrective action will be taken to prevent future incidents, which could include: re-education and retraining of the harasser, to removing the harasser’s potential contact with the complainant in the workplace, to discipline or dismissal for just cause in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

As a general practice, vi will keep records of its harassment investigation which could include:

* A copy of the complaint or details about the incident.
* A record of the investigation including notes.
* A copy of any investigation report.
* A summary of the results of the investigation that was provided to the victim and the alleged

  harasser, if the alleged harasser was a worker.

* A copy of any corrective action taken to address the complaint or incident of harassment.

All records of the investigation will be kept confidential. The investigation documents, including the investigation report \(if applicable\) will not be disclosed unless necessary to investigate an incident or complaint of workplace harassment, take corrective action or otherwise as required by law. These records will be kept for at least 3 years in accordance with vi’s Document Retention Policy.

## 6. NO REPRISALS

No reprisal or penalty will be taken against anyone who either brings forward a harassment complaint in good faith or participates in a harassment investigation, even if the complaint is later found to be unfounded. However, any employee who makes a complaint of harassment maliciously or without a reasonable and probable basis will be subject to discipline, in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 7. CONSEQUENCES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY

All employees are required to read and comply with the terms of this Policy at all times. Any violation of this Policy, may be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause, in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 8. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The JHSC is responsible for the administration of this policy. If employees have questions regarding this policy, or about health and safety matters, that are not addressed in this policy, they may contact a member of the JHSC for more information.

This Policy will be reviewed, and revised if appropriate, at the earlier of: whenever there is a change that affects its effectiveness in ensuring a healthy and safe workplace, as required by the OHSA and the Code, or on an annual basis.

