---
description: viGlobal Operational & Governance Policies and Procedures
---

# 05. Code of Business Conduct & Ethics

## 1. GENERAL

VIDESKTOP INC. \(“vi”\) has adopted this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics \(the “Code”\) in order to:

1. promote integrity and honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest;
2. promote compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations;
3. promote the protection of vi assets, including corporate opportunities and confidential information;
4. promote fair dealing practices;
5. deter wrongdoing; and
6. ensure accountability for adherence to the Code.

Vi’s policy is to promote high standards of integrity by conducting its affairs honestly and ethically. The purpose of the Code is to guide directors, officers and employees on how to carry out their duties in an honest and ethical manner.

Each director, officer and employee must act with integrity and observe the highest ethical standards of business conduct in his or her dealings with vi’s customers, suppliers, partners, service providers, competitors, employees and anyone else with whom he or she has contact in the course of performing his or her job. While the Code does not, and cannot, deal with every situation that may arise, the principles outlined in the Code should be seen as providing a baseline for honest and ethical decision-making. vi shall ensure that each director, officer and employee is provided with a copy of the Code and signs an acknowledgment of receipt and review.

All directors, officers and employees are required to be familiar with the Code, comply with its provisions and report any suspected violations as described below.

## 2. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

Conflicts of interest should be avoided unless specifically authorized. A conflict of interest occurs when an individual’s private interest \(or the interest of a member of his or her family\) interferes, or appears to interfere, with the interests of vi as a whole. A conflict of interest can arise when an employee, officer or director \(or a member of his or her family\):



1. takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her work for vi objectively and effectively;
2. receives improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position in vi; or
3. has an interest in an agreement or transaction involving vi.

Whether or not a conflict of interest exists or will exist can be unclear. Conflicts of interest should be avoided unless specifically authorized by vi.

Employees who have questions about a potential conflict of interest or who become aware of an actual or potential conflict should advise vi immediately by bringing the matter to the attention of the Compliance Officer.

## 3. COMPLIANCE

Vi and its employees, officers and directors should comply, both in letter and spirit, with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which vi operates.

Although not all employees, officers and directors are expected to know the details of all applicable laws, rules and regulations, it is important to know enough to determine when to seek advice from appropriate personnel. Questions about compliance should be addressed to the Compliance Officer or to vi’s legal counsel.

## 4. PROTECTION AND PROPER USE OF VI ASSETS

All directors, officers and employees should protect vi’s assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, carelessness and waste have a direct impact on vi’s profitability and are prohibited.

All vi assets should be used only for legitimate business purposes. Any suspected incident of fraud or theft should be reported for investigation immediately.

### a\) Proprietary Information

The obligation to protect vi assets includes vi’s proprietary information. Proprietary information includes intellectual property such as trade secrets, patents, trade-marks, and copyrights, as well as business and marketing plans, engineering and manufacturing ideas, designs, databases, records and any non-public financial data or reports. Unauthorized use or distribution of this information is prohibited and could also be illegal and result in civil or criminal penalties.

### b\) Record Keeping

All transactions undertaken on behalf of vi must be authorized in accordance with Vi policies and must be documented accurately. Directors, officers and employees responsible for record-keeping and accounting must ensure that vi’s books and records are accurate, timely and fair in their description of the assets of vi.

## 5. CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES

All directors, officers and employees owe a duty to vi to advance its interests when the opportunity arises. Directors, officers and employees are prohibited from taking for themselves personally \(or for the benefit of friends or family members\) opportunities that are discovered through the use of vi assets, property, information or position. Directors, officers and employees may not use vi assets, property, information or position for personal gain \(including gain of friends or family members\). In addition, no director, officer or employee may compete with vi.

## 6. CONFIDENTIALITY

Directors, officers and employees should maintain the confidentiality of information entrusted to them by vi or by its clients, suppliers or partners, except when disclosure is expressly authorized or legally required. Confidential information includes all non-public information \(regardless of its source\) that might be of use to vi’s competitors or harmful to vi or its clients, suppliers or partners if disclosed. The obligation to maintain the confidentiality of information remains even after the director, officer or employee ceases to be employed or hold office with vi.

## 7. FAIR DEALING

Each director, officer and employee must deal fairly with vi’s clients, suppliers, competitors, employees and anyone else with whom he or she has contact in the course of performing his or her job. No director, officer or employee may take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse or privileged information, misrepresentation of facts or any other unfair dealing practice.

## 8. HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE WORKPLACE

Vi is committed to providing a workplace free of harassment, violence and discrimination. Directors, officers and employees are expected to foster a respectful work environment that adheres to the requirements of applicable human rights law and related workplace legislation. Vi will not tolerate acts of discrimination based on age, ancestry, colour, race, citizenship, ethnic origin, creed, disability, family status, marital status, gender, gender identity, sex, sexual orientation or any other ground of discrimination prohibited by law.

## 9. REPORTING AND INVESTIGATIONS

Employees are encouraged to report any perceived violations of this Code, without fear of reprisal. Accordingly, this code requires the following steps take place:

1. Actions prohibited by this Code must be reported to the Compliance Officer, in writing.
2. After receiving a report of an alleged prohibited action, the Compliance Officer must promptly take all appropriate actions necessary to investigate.
3. The investigation shall take place in accordance with vi’s Internal Investigation Procedure.
4. All directors, officers and employees are expected to cooperate in any internal investigation of misconduct.

## 10. ENFORCEMENT

Vi shall ensure prompt and consistent action against violations of this Code in accordance of with the following principles:

1. If, after investigating a report of an alleged prohibited action by an employee, the Compliance Officer determines that a violation of this Code has occurred, the Compliance Officer will report such determination to the CEO.
2. Upon receipt of a determination that there has been a violation of this Code, the CEO will take such preventative or disciplinary action as he deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, reassignment, demotion, termination for cause and, in the event of criminal conduct or other serious violations of the law, notification of appropriate governmental authorities.

## 11. PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION

Vi does not tolerate acts of retaliation, including demotion, discharge, discipline, discrimination, harassment, suspension or threats, against any director, officer or employee who makes a good faith report of known or suspected acts of misconduct or other violations of this Code.

## 12. CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO COMPLY

All employees are required to read and comply with the terms of this policy at all times.

Any violation of this policy may be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause, in accordance with the vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 13. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The Compliance Officer is responsible for the administration this Code. If employees have questions regarding this Code, they may contact the Compliance Officer for more information.

In accordance with vi’s corporate policies, practices and procedures, this Code will be reviewed on at least an annual basis.

Vi expressly reserves the right to change, modify or delete any provisions of this Code without notice, in the future.

