---
description: viGlobal Travel Policy
---

# 06. Travel Policy

## 1. GENERAL

Vi is committed to promoting the safety and security of its employees, including while they travel during the course of their employment. Traveling abroad can be necessary for vi's business and may be required as part of an employee's job responsibilities. However, foreign travel may present risks for travelers and vi from unexpected situations or emergencies. These risks include exposure to disease, accidents, unstable or hostile political environments, and natural disasters. There are also heightened information security risks when employees travel domestically and internationally.

Proper planning and taking certain precautions before, during, and after travel can help vi and its employees manage and mitigate the risks associated with business travel. This policy sets forth procedures and best practices to minimize these risks. All employees who travel on behalf of vi are responsible for reviewing this policy and must comply with the guidelines set forth herein. Employees must also abide by all vi policies when traveling abroad, including, but not limited to, vi’s Health and Safety Policy, Remote Access Policy, Information and Data Security Policy and other relevant policies and procedures.

## 2. SCOPE

This Policy applies to all employees who travel for business related purposes on behalf of vi. This Policy does not apply to employees' personal travel, save and except for the sections of this Policy relating to data and information security, which continue to apply whenever employees access vi information technology and communications systems while away from the office.

## 3. APPROVAL

Employees must obtain advance written approval for any business travel, before making travel arrangements and/or incurring any travel-related expenses.

Before travelling outside of Canada and the United States, employees must also consult the Government of Canada’s Travel Advice and Advisories Information Centre at https://travel.gc.ca/travelling/advisories, to obtain any information about travel alerts and warnings/risks for travel to the applicable destination. This resource should be consulted at least twice, prior to booking travel arrangements and once again prior to travelling to ensure there are no changes to safety and security conditions between the date of booking and the travel date.

Vi does not permit employees to travel to locations which are identified by the Government of Canada as unsafe.

Vi may withdraw its approval of an employee's travel at any time.

## 4. TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS AND EXPENSES

When making travel arrangements, employees must follow the guidelines set out in the Employee Handbook relating to businesses expenses, including keeping all receipts for reimbursement. Vi will generally reimburse employees for reasonable business travel expenses incurred.

As a general practice, employees should always use the lowest-priced transportation options that are reasonably available.

Employees may personally retain frequent flyer awards that accrue from business travel, subject to any tax considerations which may apply. However, employees will not be reimbursed for tickets purchased with frequent flyer miles.

### a\) Air Transportation

Employees must travel on the lowest-priced coach airfare available, taking into consideration preferred airports, preferred arrival and departure times, connection times, and other restrictions, including cancellation and change fees. Premium fares, such as fares for first-class or business-class travel, are reimbursable only in limited circumstances, and are subject to prior-approval from vi.

Vi reserves the right to determine whether to reimburse employees for penalties and other charges for flight cancellations or changes, taking the particular circumstances into account. Where penalties and or other charges are incurred due to circumstances outside of the employee’s control, the employee shall not be responsible for any additional penalties and/or charges.

### b\) Personal Automobile Transportation and Parking

If use of an employee's personal vehicle is required for business purposes, employees will be reimbursed at the mileage rate set by vi, which may change from time to time. Tolls and parking fees are also reimbursable. However, vi will not reimburse employees for expenses not necessary for business purposes, such as:

* Parking tickets.
* Vehicle repairs, maintenance, and enhancements.
* Fines for moving violations.
* Vehicle towing charges.

  Employees using a personal vehicle for business purposes should ensure that their automobile insurance covers business travel.

### c\) Rental Cars

If an employee uses a rental car for business purposes, vi will reimburse employees for the reasonable cost of the rental car, gasoline, tolls, and parking fees. Employees must reserve an economy or standard-sized vehicle. Upgrades to full-size vehicles are permissible only with advance approval by vi and if required due to the number of passengers, or other relevant circumstances.

Vi’s insurance may not cover both the employee and the vehicle when a vehicle is rented for business purposes. Accordingly, employees should purchase additional insurance coverage from the rental car company, which is reimbursable by the company.

Employees are not permitted to drive or rent a vehicle if they are not legally entitled to drive a vehicle in the jurisdiction, or are able to read the language used for the destination's traffic signs.

### d\) Ground Transportation

Employees will be reimbursed for ordinary and reasonably priced ground transportation, including buses, shuttles, taxis, ride sharing, and car services to and from airports and between the employee's hotel and other business-related locations.

### e\) Hotels and Lodging

Vi will reimburse employees for the cost of standard accommodations in a reasonably priced hotel for overnight stays during business trips. Employees seeking reimbursement for lodging expenses must submit an itemized hotel receipt or statement that indicates that full payment has been made and contains:

* The name and location of the hotel or other lodging.
* The date or dates of the employee's stay.
* Separately stated charges for lodging, meals, telephone, internet access, and other expenses.

### f\) Meals

Vi will reimburse employees for the reasonable cost of their own meals while on overnight travel or where an employee is away from the normal work location for an entire day. However, vi will not reimburse employees for meals that vi, in its sole discretion, determines are lavish or extravagant.

Employees must provide receipts or other appropriate substantiating documentation for each meal taken throughout the trip.

Any meals purchased for purposes of business entertainment, must be identified, with the name of the customer \(including prospective customers\) and individual customer representative\(s\) provided to vi at the time the expense reimbursement claim is made.

### g\) Communications

Vi will reimburse employees traveling on business for the reasonable costs of business-related:

* Phone calls.
* Internet service fees.
* Faxes.
* Business-related shipments or mailings.

Employees must present receipts and other substantiating documentation itemizing costs and identifying the parties contacted.

Prior to travelling internationally, employees should contact the Operations Department and advise of their travel plans, so the Operations Department can determine the appropriate option for cellular service while abroad, including adding an international calling and data plan.

### h\) Currency Conversion

Employees traveling internationally should identify any receipts issued in foreign currencies, and convert all expenses to Canadian dollars prior to submitting for reimbursement processing. Employees must indicate the rates used to convert foreign currency to Canadian dollars. Vi reserves the right to establish alternative conversion rates, and rely on such rates for calculating reimbursement entitlements.

## 5. VISAS AND PASSPORTS

Employees traveling internationally should check that their passport is current with at least six \(6\) months of validity before its expiration date. Employees may never travel on a tourist visa while traveling on business. If required, employees must obtain a business visa or equivalent as necessary prior to the scheduled departure date.

Expenses associated with obtaining or renewing a business visa for business travel are reimbursable by vi.

## 6. DATA AND INFORMATION SECURITY

While traveling, it is critical that employees strictly adhere to vi’s Remote Access Policy as well as vi’s broader information and data security policies and procedures, set out in its IT and Communications Systems Policy and its Information and Data Security Policy.

All employees \(whether traveling internationally or domestically\) must also take the following precautions before, during, and after international business travel:

### a\) Before Leaving

* Advise the Operations Department of your intention to travel, your anticipated travel location\(s\) and the duration of your trip.
* Do not bring company electronic devices unless they are necessary for the trip, and check with the Operations Department, about any devices you take with you, to ensure requisite security and encryption features are up to date and installed.
* Make sure that all electronic data is backed up in accordance with vi’s procedures.

### b\) During Travel

* Use secure remote access procedures \(Virtual Private Network \(VPN\)\) for all internet activity in accordance with vi’s Remote Access Policy.
* Be vigilant when working on an airplane, train, or any other public location. For example:
  * never leave your computer, other electronic device, or files unattended;
  * ensure that confidential information is not viewable by anyone in the public place; o use a privacy screen on laptops; and
  * do not engage in confidential conversations where they may be overhead, including taxis and other modes of transportation.
* Secure from theft any vi property while traveling \(for example, by using hotel safes when available\).
* Use strong passwords, in accordance with vi’ password guidelines \(set out in the company’s IT and Communications Systems Policy\) on electronic devices, and encryption programs for electronic files and emails in accordance with vi procedures.
* Use updated anti-virus software to screen electronic devices for viruses before communicating with home networks.
* Be on the lookout for suspicious phishing emails, phone calls, or other scamming attempts. 
* Log-off, turn off electronic devices, and terminate any network connections when you are not using or are separated from the device.
* If you need to use removable storage media, such as CD-ROMs, external hard drives, or USB memory sticks to store sensitive information, ensure that all such devises have received prior approval from the Operations Department and are encryption-protected. Do not use your own personal devises to store vi data, or borrow any such devices from clients or other third parties. 
* Promptly report any incidents, such as a stolen device or a customs or law enforcement official taking or searching a device, to the Operations Department.
* If you become aware of a data breach, or suspect a device has been compromised, stop using the device immediately, disconnect its power source and call the Operations Department as soon as possible.

### c\) When Returning

* Check electronic devices for malicious software.
* Change any passwords used specific to the trip, in accordance with vi procedures. 
* Report anything suspicious to the Operations Department.

For all questions about information security before, during, and after travel, please contact the Operations Department.

## 7. HEALTH & SAFETY

Vi is committed to promoting the health, safety, and security of its employees while they travel as part of their job duties. Vi’s comprehensive Health & Safety Policy, as well other physical security policies and procedures continue to apply whenever employees are working outside of the office or travelling for work. However, the company has established these additional safety and security procedures to follow when travelling \(particularly while travelling outside of Canada and the United States\):

* Before making arrangements to travel internationally outside of Canada and the United States, employees must review any health and safety concerns within the destination country or locale and make arrangements for safe travel.
* Employees traveling internationally should also prepare for potential emergency situations that may affect their health or safety during their trip.
* Review travel warnings and alerts from Canada’s Travel Advice and Advisories Information Centre at https://travel.gc.ca/travelling/advisories\), and the World Health Organization \(WHO\) regarding any global health concerns, emerging infectious diseases and outbreaks, political climates, special events or gatherings, natural disasters, crime, and other conditions in the country or region where you are traveling.
* Consult with your personal health care provider at least two weeks prior to travel regarding any recommended vaccinations, preventative or other medications, and any other health-related concerns or issues, particularly when traveling to remote areas or to a developing country.
* Becoming familiar with infectious diseases to which you may be exposed so that you may avoid contracting an infection and recognize the symptoms of disease.
* Carry a personal travel medical or first aid kit, and make sure you bring with you any prescriptions that you may need for the duration of your trip.
* Understanding local health issues in the destination country, including hygiene and dietary issues relating to safe water and food products.
* Review your personal travel and medical insurance and understand its coverage.
* Carry emergency contact information with you \(including the information set out below\).
* Always act prudently and cautiously, and abide by local laws while traveling.
* Assess the safest mode of ground transportation and safest hotel locations. For example, in

  some locations, chartered or chauffeured vehicles are a safer option than a local taxi.

### a\) Reporting Illnesses and Injuries

Employees must report any injuries, accidents, or illness occurring while traveling on vi business to their manager and vi as soon as practical, regardless of the severity.

### b\) Emergency Contact Information

It is very important that employees can be reached by vi in case of an emergency while travelling. Therefore, employees should provide their travel itinerary and contact information to their manager prior to departure and provide updated information if anything changes. Employees should keep with them, the contact information of persons they may need to reach in an emergency while traveling abroad, including:

* Vi contact information, including the employee's manager, the Operations Department and any other relevant parties.
* Personal contacts at the client’s or other location the employee is visiting.
* The hotel where the employee is staying.
* Local police.
* A Canadian embassy or consulate in the country to which the employee is traveling.

Employees should also make sure their emergency contact information is complete and updated, with vi.

## 8. CONSEQUENCES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY

All employees are required to read and comply with the terms of this Policy at all times. Any violation of this Policy, may be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause, in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 9. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The JHSC, Accounting Department and the Operations Department are jointly responsible for the administration of this policy. If employees have questions regarding this policy, they should contact the JHSC about health and safety matters, the Operations Department about information security matters, and the Accounting Department for expense and reimbursement related matters.

This Policy will be reviewed, and revised if appropriate, on an annual basis.

