---
description: viGlobal Operational & Governance Policies and Procedures
---

# 07. Corporate Compliance Program

## 1. GENERAL

VIDESKTOP INC. \(“vi”\) has established this Corporate Compliance Program \(“Program”\) so that our business complies with the competition laws that apply to our business. This Document, serves as the formal Policy that established the Program.

It includes practical advice concerning rules of conduct that will help our business anticipate and prevent contraventions before they occur, and detect and report contraventions if they do occur. This Program is for use in our daily business by all employees.

## 2. COMMITMENT TO COMPLIANCE

Vi is committed to complying with the law in letter and in spirit. There may be instances where this Program sets standards that are higher than those required by the law. Nevertheless, it is imperative that you follow the rules of conduct established by this Program strictly.

Our CEO has designated a Compliance Officer for the development, implementation and maintenance of the Program.

## 3. EMPLOYEES’ RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE

While the Compliance Officer manages the Program, daily responsibility for compliance with the law rests with each and every employee of the business. Compliance with the law protects not only our business, but also each of us individually.

In addition, our business has developed a Code of Business and Ethics Conduct, and additional policies, procedures and practical guides to assist you in recognizing improper conduct and knowing when and how to seek advice.

## 4. CANADIAN COMPETITION LAW

The purpose of Canadian competition law is to maintain and encourage effective competition in Canada. Effective competition benefits all of us by ensuring competitive prices, service and quality, and by encouraging greater innovation. The Competition Act maintains a competitive marketplace by prohibiting certain activities that might reduce or prevent competition, or harm consumers. The Commissioner of Competition \(“Commissioner”\) and staff of the Competition Bureau \(“Bureau”\) administer and enforce the competition laws. A general description of the Competition Act is set out in Appendix A.

## 5. COMPETITION ACT PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.

A contravention of the Competition Act, whether civil or criminal, can have serious legal consequences for our business and our employees. For example, contraventions can both:

* Expose the business to significant criminal fines or civil administrative monetary penalties, restitution, orders from the courts or Competition Tribunal \(“Tribunal”\) that prohibit the continuation of the practice, and/or impose other obligations on vi, and the recovery of damages by private parties; and
* Expose employees convicted of criminal offences to fines and imprisonment, or to administrative monetary penalties.

Penalties under the Competition Act vary depending on the nature of the offence, and the circumstances of the offending parties and the facts at hand. Below are a few examples of the severity of fines and criminal penalties that vi and its employees may be subject to for violations of the law.

### a\) Non-Criminal, Administrative Penalties

Deceptive marketing or business practices can result in the following consequences:

* Individuals may be subject to maximum fines of $750,000 for a first offence and $1,000,000 for subsequent offences; and
* Corporations may be subject to maximum fines of $10,000,000 for a first offence and $25,000,000 for subsequent offences.

### b\) Criminal Penalties

Illegal price-fixing is subject to prosecution and offenders could be subject to maximum fines of $25,000,000 or prison terms of up to 14 years.

## 6. SUBJECT PERSONNEL

The Program applies to all of us, at all levels of the business. This is important for anyone in a position to potentially engage in, or be exposed to, illegal conduct. When we refer to “employees,” we mean it in the broadest of terms, including officers, managers, employees and anyone else that acts for our company.

It is the personal responsibility of all employees to conduct their activities on behalf of our business in compliance with both the letter and the spirit of the law. No one who is employed by our company has the authority to engage in any conduct, or knowingly permit a subordinate to engage in any conduct, that contravenes the law or this Program.

Anyone who engages in such conduct or who otherwise contravenes the Program or the law may be subject to appropriate disciplinary or corrective measures, up to and including dismissal. Any manager or supervisor who fails to take reasonable steps to prevent or detect contraventions will also be subject to discipline. This is in addition to any criminal or civil liability that may be imposed on the individual as a result of a finding of the courts or the Tribunal.

## 7. MANAGEMENT INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT

Vi recognizes that management’s clear and unequivocal support is the foundation of a credible and effective compliance program.

As part of acting in the best interests of our business, management must always demonstrate leadership and a commitment to legal and ethical conduct.

It is management’s duty to promote and ensure compliance with the law. Management is accountable for promoting and complying with the law.

While management is accountable for compliance, the responsibility to manage the Program is delegated by the CEO to the Compliance officer.

## 8. CORPORATE COMPLIANCE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

Vi recognizes that strong compliance policies and procedures are critical to the success of the Program. These policies and procedures will be updated regularly to reflect changes in the business, the law, the Bureau’s enforcement policies or the industry. Reasonable measures will be taken to promptly notify all employees of such changes.

## 9. TRAINING AND EDUCATION

Vi recognizes that, to be effective, the Program must include an ongoing training component that addresses compliance issues for all employees. Vi will develop a comprehensive training program to ensure employees are aware of the law, their responsibilities to comply with it at all times, and the consequences to the vi and employees for non-compliance. All new hires will be required to complete such training as a pre-condition of employment with vi.

## 10. MONITORING, VERIFICATION AND REPORTING MECHANISMS

### a\) Monitoring

To ensure compliance, the Compliance Officer shall ensure that the Program provides for monitoring of business activities, continuously or periodically, as appropriate based on the risk assessment associated with those activities.

The Compliance Officer shall ensure that the Program is reviewed and evaluated periodically, and that the Program is updated when issues arise, when there are new developments in the law or the business activities of our company, and when opportunities for improvement are detected.

### b\) Verification

The Compliance Officer shall conduct periodic, ad hoc compliance audits, or event-triggered investigations, as appropriate, to confirm whether our business is fully complying with the Competition Act and whether our Program is being implemented properly and operating effectively.

The Compliance Officer shall review and update this program when issues are detected.

### c\) Reporting

All instances of non-compliance with the Program or the law shall be reported to the Compliance Officer in accordance with vi’s Internal Complaint and Investigation Procedure. The Compliance Officer shall regularly report to the CEO.

The Program is intended to help employees comply with the requirements of the law, recognize improper conduct, understand how you must behave because of the law and know when to seek advice.

If employees have any questions concerning the Program or the law, they should contact the Compliance Officer and/or vi’s legal counsel.

If employees become aware of a breach or possible breach of the Program or the law, they must report it to the Compliance Officer immediately, in accordance with the Company’s Internal Complaint and Investigation Procedure.

No employee shall suffer any adverse employment consequences for reporting a possible contravention of the Program or the law. In that regard, the company undertakes and guarantees that in circumstances where there are bona fide grounds for concern, regardless of whether in the end it proves to be a contravention of a law, the employee will not be demoted or suffer any other form of punishment.

### d\) Disciplinary Procedures and Incentives

Vi is strongly committed to compliance with this Program and the law. We take non-compliance very seriously. Each employee’s commitment to this Program is taken into account as part of our performance reviews and for possible advancement and promotion in our company.

Any breach of this Program and/or the Competition Act will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination for cause as set out in vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 11. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The Compliance Officer is responsible for the administration the Program. If employees have questions regarding this Policy or vi’s Corporate Compliance Program that are not addressed in this Policy, they may contact the Compliance Officer for more information.

In accordance with vi’s corporate policies, practices and procedures, this Policy will be reviewed on at least an annual basis.

Vi expressly reserves the right to change, modify or delete any provisions of this Policy, and the Program without notice, in the future.

## APPENDIX A OVERVIEW OF THE COMPETITION ACT

## 1. Overview of Canadian Competition Law

The following is an overview of Canadian competition law, the Competition Act and competition law enforcement and penalties.

### \(a\) Canadian Competition Law

The purpose of Canadian competition law is to maintain and encourage effective competition in Canada. The Competition Act helps maintain a competitive marketplace by prohibiting and regulating certain activities that might prevent or reduce competition or harm consumers. Competition law in Canada is enforced by the Bureau, which is headed by the Commissioner.

### \(b\) The Competition Act

Canadian competition law is governed by the Competition Act, which is a federal law governing most businesses and industries in Canada. The Competition Act contains both criminal and civil provisions relating to, among other things, conspiracy agreements \(price-fixing, market division/allocation and supply/output restriction agreements between competitors\), bid-rigging, false or misleading representations, refusals to deal, price maintenance, exclusive dealing, tied selling, market restrictions and abuse of dominance.

### \(c\) Enforcement of the Competition Act

The Commissioner investigates complaints made by business people and consumers. Under the Competition Act, the Commissioner’s investigative powers include, among others, the ability to obtain search warrants and court orders to compel the production of documents, to interview individuals under oath, or to order that conduct stop. The Commissioner may also make applications directly to the Tribunal or courts in some cases and refer matters to the Director of Public Prosecutions for criminal prosecution.

### \(d\) Competition Law Penalties and Remedies

A violation of the Competition Act can result in serious legal consequences for vi, its executives and employees. These can include criminal fines or civil monetary penalties, orders to compensate consumers for losses, orders to stop or modify conduct, imprisonment and civil damages.

## 12. RelevantCompetitionActSections

The following is a short overview of the following key sections of the Competition Act for vi: \(a\) conspiracy \(section 45\); \(b\) bid-rigging \(section 47\); \(c\) abuse of dominance \(sections 78 and 79\); and \(d\) misleading advertising \(sections 52 and 74.01\).

### \(a\) Conspiracy

Section 45 of the Competition Act, which sets out three criminal offences relating to conspiracies, is one of the most important sections for employees to understand. The enforcement of section 45 is a top priority for the Bureau, and violating this section can lead to severe penalties, including criminal fines and imprisonment.

Under section 45 of the Competition Act, the following three types of agreements between competitors \(or potential competitors\) are illegal, subject to any applicable defenses:

* **Price fixing agreements**. Section 45\(1\)\(a\) makes it a criminal offence for competitors \(or potential competitors\) to agree to fix, maintain, increase or control the price for the supply of a product. “Price” is broadly defined to include discounts, rebates, allowances and price concessions.
* **Market division/allocation agreements**. Section 45\(1\)\(b\) makes it a criminal offence for competitors \(or potential competitors\) to agree to allocate sales, territories, customers, or markets for the production or supply of a product.
* **Supply/output restriction agreements**. Section 45\(1\)\(c\) makes it a criminal offence for competitors \(or potential competitors\) to agree to fix, maintain, control, prevent, lessen or eliminate the production or supply of a product, including services. This section of the Competition Act is also potentially broad enough that it could also apply to concerted refusals to deal or “boycotts” \(that is, agreements between competitors to collectively refuse to deal with other marketplace participants\).



To establish an offence under section 45 of the Competition Act, it is not necessary to prove that there have been any negative effects on a market \(that is, merely proving that there is an agreement, intent to enter the agreement, and it is one of the three prohibited types mentioned above is sufficient\). It is also unnecessary to prove that any agreement was ever carried out. The offence is in the agreement, not in implementing it.

A number of defenses are available under section 45 of the Competition Act. These include for agreements between affiliates, as defined by the Competition Act, and also an “ancillary restraints” defense.

The ancillary restraints defense provides a defense where it can be shown that an agreement between competitors is: \(i\) ancillary to a broader agreement; \(ii\) directly related to and reasonably necessary to give effect to the broader agreement; and \(iii\) the broader agreement does not itself violate section 45. While this defense may apply to agreements that are potentially pro-competitive \(for example, certain joint venture arrangements that may have some minor restraints to make them effective\) or “on the line”, it would likely provide no defense to hard core anti-competitive agreements \(that is, bare price-fixing, market division or output restriction agreements\).

The potential penalties for conspiracy include fines of up to $25 million \(per count\), imprisonment for up to 14 years and/or court orders to stop conduct. Private parties that have suffered loss or damage as a result of criminal conduct under the Competition Act, including section 45, may also commence private damages actions.

### \(b\) Bid-Rigging

Under section 47 of the Competition Act, it is a criminal offence for two or more bidders or tenderers to: \(i\) submit a bid or tender that is arrived at by agreement; \(ii\) agree not to submit a bid or tender; or \(iii\) agree to withdraw a bid or tender already made.

Like the conspiracy offences under section 45, bid-rigging is also “per se illegal” in that no anti-competitive market effects need to be proven. Some of the types of bid-rigging that can violate the Competition Act include:

* **Cover bidding**. Some firms submit bids by agreement that are too high to be accepted, or with terms that are unacceptable to a buyer, to protect an agreed upon low bidder.
* **Bid suppression**. One or more bidders that would otherwise bid agree to refrain from bidding or to withdraw a previously made bid.
* **Bid rotation**. All parties submit bids but agree to take turns being the low bidder according to an agreed systematic or rotating basis.
* **Market division**. Suppliers agree not to compete in designated geographic areas or for specified customers.
* **Subcontracting**. Parties that agree not to submit a bid, or submit a high/losing bid, are awarded subcontracts from the successful bidder.

The only express bid-rigging exception in the Competition Act is for agreements between affiliates \(that is, an agreement or arrangement entered into only between affiliates as defined by the Competition Act\). There is also no offence where bidders expressly communicate an agreement to the party calling for bids at or before the time a bid is submitted or withdrawn.

The potential penalties for bid-rigging include unlimited fines \(that is, fines in the discretion of the court\) and/or imprisonment for up to 14 years. Private parties also have a right to commence civil damages actions under section 47 of the Competition Act.

### \(c\) Abuse of Dominance

The abuse of dominance sections of the Competition Act could also apply to vi in certain cases. Under sections 78 and 79 of the Competition Act, abuse of dominance occurs where a dominant firm \(or firms\) has engaged or is engaging in a practice of anti-competitive acts, with the result that competition has been, is being, or is likely to be prevented or lessened substantially.

Determining whether conduct constitutes an abuse of dominance can be complex. In general, issues can arise under the abuse of dominance sections of the Act where a competitor with significant market presence engages in activities that are predatory, exclusionary or disciplinary toward a competitor.

Some of the types of activities, among others, that can potentially raise abuse of dominance issues include:

* Foreclosing access by a competitor to scarce facilities or resources.
* Exclusivity arrangements with suppliers or customers.
* Below-cost pricing.
* Meet-or-release clauses \(for example, the right to meet a competitor’s price or release the customer from the agreement\).
* Long-term supply contracts.

Potential penalties for abuse of dominance include administrative monetary penalties \(AMPs\) of up to $10 million \($15 million for subsequent orders\) and Tribunal orders to stop or modify conduct.

### \(d\) Misleading Advertising

The Competition Act contains both criminal and civil misleading advertising sections. In general, for a claim to be false or misleading, it must be proven that a representation has been made: \(i\) to the public; \(ii\) to promote a product or business interest; \(iii\) that is literally false or misleading \(or with a false or misleading general impression\); and \(iv\) that is “material” \(that is, likely to influence an average consumer into buying or using a product or otherwise altering their conduct\).

Criminal misleading advertising is substantially similar, but also requires that a claim be made intentionally \(that is, knowingly or recklessly\).

In addition to general misleading advertising provisions, the Competition Act also contains a number of other criminal and civil provisions that prohibit or regulate specific types of marketing practices. These include:

* Deceptive telemarketing.
* Deceptive prize notices.
* Double ticketing.
* Multi-level marketing.
* Pyramid selling.
* Product performance claims.
* False or misleading ordinary selling price representations.
* Misleading or unauthorized use of tests and testimonials.
* Bait and switch selling.
* The sale of a product above its advertised price.
* Promotional contests.

Several key points about the misleading advertising sections of the Competition Act include:

* In determining whether a representation is false or misleading, both its literal meaning and its general impression are relevant.
* A claim made to a single person can constitute a representation to the public \(as can claims made in more private settings, such as business seminars or meetings\).
* A representation will be considered material if it would be likely to influence an average consumer \(and in some cases less sophisticated consumers\) to purchase a product or otherwise alter his/her conduct.
* It is not necessary to show that anyone has actually been deceived or misled.
* Performance claims must be supported by adequate and proper testing before they are made.

Potential penalties for civil misleading advertising include AMPs of up to $750,000 \(for individuals\) and up to $10 million \(for corporations\) and remedial orders \(for example, an order to stop the activity or publish a corrective notice\). Potential penalties for criminal misleading advertising include fines of up to $200,000 and/or imprisonment for up to one year \(on summary conviction\) or fines in the discretion of the court and/or imprisonment for up to 14 years \(on indictment\).

## 13. CompetitionBureauImmunityandLeniencyPrograms

The Bureau has formal Immunity and Leniency Programs that can be very important to companies or individuals that have committed criminal offences under the Competition Act. In general, parties that have committed certain criminal offences under the Competition Act may be entitled to full immunity from prosecution \(under the Bureau’s Immunity Program\) or leniency in sentencing \(under its Leniency Program\) for reporting the offences to the Bureau and cooperating with an investigation. Each Program has a series of steps that must be met to qualify.

To qualify for immunity, an applicant must be the first to disclose the conduct \(obtaining immunity is, therefore, a race\) and the Bureau is either: \(i\) unaware of the offence; or \(ii\) aware of the offence, but does not yet have sufficient evidence to refer the matter for prosecution. An immunity applicant must also terminate its participation in the illegal activity, not have coerced others to be a party to the offence, and provide complete, timely and ongoing co-operation during an investigation at its own expense.

To qualify for leniency, an applicant must report the matter to the Bureau before it has sufficient evidence to refer the matter for prosecution, terminate the illegal conduct, fully co-operate in a timely manner at its own expense with the Bureau’s investigation and any subsequent prosecution, and plead guilty.

The Bureau’s Immunity Program is available in relation to, among others, the criminal offences of the Competition Act, including sections 45 \(conspiracy agreements\); foreign directed conspiracies \(section 46\); and bid-rigging \(section 47\). The Leniency Program is only available in relation to cartel offences \(for example, sections 45 and 47\).

Immunity is only available to the first applicant that successfully fulfills all of the requirements of the Immunity Program. While several applicants may receive leniency in sentencing under the Leniency Program, reduced protections are available for second and subsequent leniency applicants. As such, there are strong incentives to seek full immunity as quickly as possible and, where unavailable, attempt to secure first place in the Leniency Program.

## 14. Whistle-blower Protections

The Bureau may also discover criminal competition law violations as a result of whistle-blowers \(that is, employees or other individuals that report Competition Act violations\). The Competition Act contains specific whistle-blower sections, which both:

* Protect the identities of people who report Competition Act violations to the Bureau.
* Prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who, in good faith and on the basis of reasonable belief, report potential competition law offences to the Bureau.

