---
description: viGlobal Operational & Governance Policies and Procedures
---

# 08. Internal Complaint & Investigation Procedure

## 1. GENERAL

VI DESKTOP INC. \(“vi”\) has developed an internal complaint and investigation procedure to ensure that all employees are able to raise any concerns they have relating to vi, its business practices, employees, clients, physical and cyber security, workplace issues \(including harassment, violence and discrimination\), codes of conduct, policies and procedures, or other matters, in a safe and secure manner.

Vi takes all employee concerns and complaints seriously and each formal complaint made in accordance with this procedure will be investigated promptly.

As general practice, vi will first attempt to handle complaints internally, and all complaints will be treated with the strictest confidence possible, given the circumstances. In some certain instances, vi, may decide to retain an independent third party to conduct the investigation.

## 2. PURPOSE

The purpose of this procedure is to provide employees with a safe forum to raise their workplace concerns. This procedure has also been implemented to ensure all complaints are investigated and resolved in an efficient manner.

## 3. RESPONSIBILITY

The Compliance Officer is responsible for developing, implementing and administering vi’s internal complaint and investigation procedure. Accordingly, all formal complaints must be submitted to the Compliance Officer in accordance with the following procedures.

## 4. CONFIDENTIALITY

Vi and the Compliance Officer shall treat all complaints with the strictest of confidence. However, in order to thoroughly investigate complaints, certain information will need to be shared with other parties, including other employees and the individuals against whom complaints may be made. The discretion whether or not to share certain information shall rest with vi and the Compliance Officer. However, all employees who participate in the investigation, whether as complainant, respondent or witness, shall all be required to keep the circumstances of the investigation as confidential as possible to protect the affected parties and to limit any disruptions in the office.

## 5. PROCEDURES

The following investigation procedures may vary depending on the nature of any complaint. The Company reserves the right to deviate from this process on a case-by-case basis.

#### Step 1

If an employee has a concern with another employee, the employee should first attempt to resolve the issue with the other employee, at the earliest opportunity possible.

Any complaints that are unrelated to another employee, for instance, a regulatory or business practice issue, are to proceed directly to Step 2 for resolution.

#### Step 2

If the employee is not able to resolve the issue with the other employee, he or she should discuss the matter with the Compliance Officer. This discussion will remain confidential in the event the employee decides not to pursue the matter further, unless the Compliance Office is required to disclose the nature of the discussion by law, in which case the employee will be advised of the circumstances relating to the disclosure.

#### Step 3

Unless otherwise instructed by the Compliance Officer, the employee will submit a formal complaint in writing to the Compliance Officer, in a written format that a complainant is comfortable providing, with as much detail concerning the complaint as is practicable, along with supporting documents, if applicable.

#### Step 4

The Compliance Officer \(and in many cases another senior manager\) will commence a prompt and thorough investigation into the complaint by reviewing the facts and all other factors pertinent to the issue\(s\), which will include, but will not be limited to; holding interviews with affected parties and other individuals with information relevant to the complaint. The nature of the investigation will depend on the nature of the complaint and the specific facts at hand.

#### Step 5

After the investigation is complete, the Compliance Officer \(and the other investigator, if applicable\) will give consideration to the merits and evidence of the complaint and make a recommendation concerning resolution.

#### Step 6

The Compliance Officer will communicate the outcome of the investigation to the complainant and any affected parties. Where appropriate, discipline will be imposed on any employee that is found to have engaged in misconduct, or has otherwise violated any workplace policies, procedures or codes of conduct.

## 6. SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES

### a\) Instances of discrimination, violence or harassment

In certain cases, given the nature of the complaint, an employee may not feel comfortable first discussing the matter with the individual against whom the complaint is made. In such cases, employees are permitted to by-pass “Step 1” and proceed directly to “Step 2” of the procedure.

Employees who feel uncomfortable discussing the circumstances of the complaint on their one at Step 2, are permitted to bring another employee to the meeting for support, provided that before the circumstances of the complaint are discussed, the employee communicates to the Compliance Officer the nature of the other person’s presence at the meeting.

If an employee does not feel comfortable discussing certain issues with members of the opposite sex, the employee should advise the Compliance Officer, and he/she will appoint another senior employee or an independent third party to conduct the investigation.

### b\) Regulatory, Health and Safety, and Criminal matters

In certain situations, vi may choose to, or may have a duty to disclose the circumstances of a complaint or the results of an investigation to a regulatory body or public authorities. In such cases, vi shall comply with all legal obligations, notwithstanding any employee’s objection to the disclosure.

In cases where a complaint is made about workplace harassment, or vi becomes aware of an incident of workplace harassment, vi shall conduct an investigation in the incident, notwithstanding any objections to the investigation from any affected party, in accordance with its obligations under Bill 132, Sexual Violence and Harassment Action Plan Act.

### c\) Information & Data Security Complaints or Inquiries

Vi’s Information and Data Security Policy contains specific procedures related to suspected data or information security incidents. Any complaints or inquiries related to data or information security should be directed to the Technical Operations Manager, in accordance with vi’s Information and Data Security Policy.

## 7. NON-RETALIATION

Vi does not tolerate any retaliation or reprisals against employees for raising any complaints with vi, the Compliance Officer or another member of management. If an employee has filed a complaint in good faith, the employee will not be disciplined or otherwise penalized because of the complaint, regardless of whether or not the complaint is ultimately sustained following the investigation.

