---
description: viGlobal Security Policies and Procedures
---

# 09. Information & Data Security Policy

## 1. GENERAL

VIDESKTOP INC. \(“vi”\) has implemented this Information & Data Security Policy \(“Policy”\) to promote best information security practices, to improve business processes and meet our clients’ expectations. From time to time, vi may implement different levels of security controls for different information assets, based on risk and other considerations.

This policy applies to all employees, and to all contractors, agents and volunteers who may have access to the vi’s information assets. However, no single policy can cover all the possible information security issues that vi may face. Accordingly, all employees, and all other parties subject to this Policy, must seek guidance from the Technical Operations Manager, before taking any actions that create information security risks or otherwise deviating from this Policy’s requirements. Vi may treat any failure to seek and follow such guidance as a violation of this Policy.

This Policy is Confidential Information. Do not share this Policy outside vi unless authorized by the Technical Operations Manager. You may only share this Policy with an approved contractor that has access to vi’s information or systems under a non-disclosure agreement or other agreement that addresses confidentiality.

Our clients rely on us to protect their information. An information security breach could severely damage our credibility. Security events can also cause loss of business and other harm to vi. Strong information security requires diligence by all workforce members, including employees, contractors, volunteers, and any others accessing or using our information assets. It is part of everyone’s job.

## 2. GUIDING PRINCIPLES

Vi. follows these guiding principles when developing and implementing information security controls:

1. Vi strives to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its information assets, and those of its clients.
2. Vi will comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws.
3. Vi will balance the need for business efficiency with the need to protect sensitive, proprietary, or

   other confidential information from undue risk.

4. Vi will grant access to sensitive, proprietary, or other confidential information only to those with a need to know and at the least level of privilege necessary to perform their assigned functions.
5. Recognizing that an astute workforce is the best line of defense, we will provide security training opportunities and expert resources to help individuals understand and meet their information security obligations.

## 3. SCOPE

This Policy applies to all employees, and to all contractors, agents and volunteers \(collectively “employees” for the purposes of this Policy\) who may have access to vi’s information assets at vi’s corporate office in Toronto, Ontario and all other locations in Canada, the United States or globally where information assets are stored. This Policy provides detailed information security guidance that all employees must follow in addition to any obligations listed in vi’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy, Non-Disclosure and Confidential Information Policy, and all other relevant policies and procedures, including but not limited to those set out in the Employee Handbook.

This Policy states vi’s information and data security policy. In many cases, employees are personally responsible for taking or avoiding specific actions as the Policy states. In some situations, the Technical Operations Manager, the IT Department, or another vi resource takes or avoids the stated actions.

From time to time, vi may approve and make available more detailed or location or business unit-specific policies, procedures, standards, and processes to address specific information security issues. Those additional policies, procedures, standards, and processes are extensions to this Policy. Employees must comply with them, where applicable, unless they obtain an approved exception from vi.

## 4. RESOURCES

No single document can cover all the possible information security issues you may face. Balancing the need to protect vi’s information assets with getting your work done can also be challenging. Many effective administrative, physical, and technical safeguards are available. Do not make assumptions about the cost or time required to implement them. Ask for help.

You must seek guidance before taking any actions that create information security risks:

1. For questions about this Policy or technical information security issues contact the Technical Operations Manager; or
2. For guidance regarding legal obligations, including client agreements, contact vi’s legal counsel.

The Following policies contain additional information about employee obligations, and vi’s procedures relating to vi’s information assets and data security :

* Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy;
* Non-Disclosure and Confidential Information Policy;
* Document Retention Policy;
* Cyber Incident Response Plan;
* Code of Business and Ethics Conduct; and
* Employee Handbook.

## 5. NO EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY AND MONITORING

As further set out in the Company’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy, you should have no expectation of privacy when using vi’s network or systems, including, but not limited to, transmitting and storing files, data, and messages.

To enforce compliance with vi’s policies and protect vi’s interests, vi reserves the right to monitor any and all use of its network and systems to the extent permitted by applicable law. By using vi’s systems, you agree to such monitoring. Monitoring may include \(but is not necessarily limited to\) intercepting and reviewing network traffic, emails, or other messages or data sent or received and inspecting data stored on individual file directories, hard disks, or other printed or electronic media.

## 6. REGULATORY COMPLIANCE

Various information security laws, regulations, and industry standards apply to vi and the data we handle. Vi is committed to complying with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Our clients expect nothing less from us.

This section lists the obligations that you are the most likely to encounter. Do not assume that these are the only laws that may apply. To identify specific obligations, you must seek guidance from vi’s legal counsel and the Technical Operations Manager when collecting, creating, or using new or different types of information.

### a\) Personal Information Protection:

Most jurisdictions have implemented legislation that protects individuals’ personal information. In Canada, vi has responsibilities under the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, 2000, \(“PIPEDA”\) relating to the collection, use and disclosure of personal information.

PIPEDA defines “personal information”, broadly as any “information about an identifiable individual”. This could include information such as: names, Social Insurance or Social Security numbers, driver’s license numbers, financial account information, and other sensitive data.

PIPEDA and all other data protection laws where vi’s information assets are stored are relevant to \(and may specifically apply to collection, use and disclosure of personal disclosure\) controlled by vi, its clients, business partners, and/or others.

Accordingly, before collecting, creating, or using personal information for any purpose, please contact the Technical Operations Manager, or company legal counsel.

For more information about PIPEDA, click here: [PIPEDA](https://www.canlii.org/en/ca/laws/stat/sc-2000-c-5/latest/sc-2000-c-5.html).

### b\) Breach Notification Laws:

PIPEDA imposes mandatory breach notification procedures on vi, where there is a breach of personal information, which results in a reasonable expectation of a real risk of significant harm to the affected individual\(s\). PIPEDA defines “significant harm” as situations where the breach could create humiliation, damage to reputation or relationships, identity theft, and other situations. Vi has developed breach notification procedures to ensure compliance with PIPEDA obligations. Vi’s formal Breach Notification Procedures are set out in its Cyber Incident Response Plan.

Most US jurisdictions have also enacted breach notification laws that require organizations to notify affected individuals if personal information is lost or accessed by unauthorized parties, and the European Union has passed similar legislation \(the General Data Protection Regulation \(GDPR\)\) which came into effect on May 25, 2018. Some jurisdictions have also enacted data protection laws that require organizations to protect personal information using reasonable data security measures or more specific means.

## 7. RESPONSIBILITIES: SECURITY ORGANIZATION, AUTHORITY, AND OBLIGATIONS

Vi and its leadership recognize the need for a strong information security program.

### a\) Information Security Coordinator

Vi has designated the Technical Operations Manager to be its Information Security Coordinator and accountable for all aspects of its information security program.

### b\) Policy Authority and Maintenance

vi has granted the Information Security Coordinator the authority to develop, maintain, and enforce this Policy and any additional policies, procedures, standards, and processes, as he or she may deem necessary and appropriate.

### c\) Policy Review

On at least an annual basis, the Information Security Coordinator will initiate a review of this Policy, engaging various internal and external stakeholders including vi’s legal counsel, and other third parties, as appropriate.

### d\) Exceptions

Vi recognizes that specific business needs and local situations may occasionally call for an exception to this Policy. Exception requests must be made in writing to the Information Security Coordinator, with a copy to the CEO. The Information Security Coordinator must approve in writing, document, and periodically review all exceptions.

The Information Security Coordinator must keep records of all exceptions and review them regularly to determine whether or not they should be extended, modified or eliminated as the case may be.

Do not assume that the Information Security Coordinator will approve an exception simply because he or she has previously approved a similar exception. Each non-compliant situation requires a review of the specific facts and risks to vi’s information assets, and those of our clients.

### e\) Employee Compliance

Employees are obligated to comply with all aspects of this Policy that apply to them. Vi may treat any attempt to bypass or circumvent security controls \(without a prior-authorized exception\) as a violation of this Policy. For example, sharing passwords, deactivating anti-virus software, removing or modifying secure configurations, or creating unauthorized network connections are prohibited unless the Information Security Coordinator has granted an exception as described above.

Vi takes steps to help employees and contractors understand this Policy. You are responsible for your own actions and compliance with this Policy. You should question and report any situation to your manager or the Information Security Coordinator that appears to violate this Policy or creates any undue information security risk.

### f\) Discipline

Any violation of this Policy may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination for cause in accordance with vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy. Discipline may include suspension, access restrictions, work assignment limitations, or more severe penalties. If vi suspects illegal activities, it may report them to the applicable authorities and aid in any investigation or prosecution of the individuals involved.

### g\) Training

Vi recognizes that an astute workforce is the best line of defense. We will provide security training opportunities and expert resources to help employees and contractors understand their obligations under this Policy and avoid creating undue risks. Employees must complete information security training when required to do so by vi. Vi may deem failure to participate in required training a violation of this Policy. vi will retain attendance records and copies of security training materials delivered.

### h\) Client Policies

In some cases, vi may handle sensitive client information. In some cases, vi may agree to comply with specific client information security policies or standards. To minimize special cases, vi has developed this Policy to include the requirements common to most of our clients.

If vi agrees to comply with additional client-specific information security policies or standards, we will notify affected workforce members. You must comply with any such policies or standards, including any related training or additional background screening requirements, in accordance with vi’s Background Checks Policy.

Vi’s legal counsel and the Information Security Coordinator must review and approve any client agreements that require compliance with specific information security policies or standards.

## 8. DATA: INFORMATION CLASSIFICATION AND RISK-BASED CONTROLS.

vi has established a three-tier classification scheme to protect information according to risk levels. The information classification scheme allows vi to select appropriate security controls and balance protection needs with costs and business efficiencies. All vi information may be classified as \(from least to most sensitive\): \(1\) Public Information, \(2\) Confidential Information, or \(3\) Highly Confidential Information.

**Unless it is marked otherwise or clearly intended to be Public Information, treat all vi and client information as if it is at least Confidential Information, regardless of its source or form, including electronic, paper, verbal, or other information.**

You must apply security controls appropriate for the assigned information classification level to all information you store, transmit, or otherwise handle. Use classification level markings, where feasible.

### a\) Public Information:

Public Information is information that vi has made available to the general public. Information received from another party \(including a \[customer/client\]\) that is covered under a current, signed non-disclosure agreement must not be classified or treated as Public Information. Some examples of public information include:

1. press releases;
2. vi marketing materials;
3. job announcements; and
4. any information that vi makes available on its publicly-accessible website.

Do not assume that any information you obtain from vi’s internal network or systems is publicly available. For example, draft marketing materials are typically Confidential Information until their release. Consider all information to be at least Confidential Information, and not available for public disclosure without authorization, until you verify it is Public Information.

### b\) Confidential Information:

Confidential Information is information that may cause harm to vi, its clients, employees, or other entities or individuals if improperly disclosed, or that is not otherwise publicly available. Harms may relate to an individual’s privacy, vi’s marketplace position or that of its clients, or legal or regulatory liabilities.

Mark Confidential Information to denote its status when technically feasible. Applications or databases that contain Confidential Information may be marked with an initial banner shown upon system access.

You must have authorization to disclose Confidential Information to an external party. Seek guidance from vi prior to disclosing Confidential Information and verify that an appropriate non-disclosure or other agreement is in effect. Some Confidential Information examples include, but are not limited to:

1. vi financial data, client lists, revenue forecasts, program or project plans, and intellectual property;
2. client-provided data, information, and intellectual property;
3. client contracts and contracts with other external parties, including vendors;
4. communications or records regarding internal vi matters and assets, including operational

   details and audits;

5. vi policies, procedures, standards, and processes \(for example, this Policy is Confidential

   Information and should not be shared without authorization from the Information Security

   Coordinator\);

6. any information designated as “confidential” or some other protected information

   classification by an external party and subject to a current non-disclosure or other agreement;

7. information regarding employees;
8. any summaries, reports, or other documents that contain Confidential Information; and
9. drafts, summaries, or other working versions of any of the above.

### c\) Safeguarding Confidential Information

You must protect Confidential Information with specific administrative, physical, and technical safeguards implemented according to risks, including \(but not necessarily limited to\):

1. Authentication. Electronically stored Confidential Information must only be accessible to an individual after logging in to vi’s network.
2. Discussions. Only discuss Confidential Information in non-public places, or if a discussion in a public place is absolutely necessary, take reasonable steps to avoid being overheard.
3. Copying/Printing/Scanning. Only scan, make copies, and distribute Confidential Information to the extent necessary or allowed under any applicable non-disclosure agreement or other applicable agreement. Take reasonable steps to ensure that others who do not have a business need to know do not view the information.
4. Faxing. When faxing Confidential Information, use a cover sheet that informs the recipient that the information is vi’s Confidential Information. Set fax machines to print a confirmation page after sending a fax. Locate copiers, fax machines, scanners, and other office equipment in physically secured areas and configure them to avoid storing Confidential Information.
5. Encryption. You should encrypt Confidential Information when storing it on a laptop, smartphone, or other mobile device, including mobile storage devices. Consider encrypting Confidential Information when transmitting or transporting it externally, based on specific risks. Seek assistance from the Technical Operations Manager.
6. Mailing. Use a service that requires a signature for receipt of the information when sending Confidential Information outside vi. When sending Confidential Information inside vi, use a sealed security envelope marked “Confidential Information.”
7. Meeting Rooms. You should only share Confidential Information in meeting rooms that are physically secured. Erase or remove any Confidential Information that you write on a whiteboard or other presentation tool upon the meeting’s conclusion.
8. Need to know. Only access, share, or include Confidential Information in documents, presentations, or other resources when there is a business need to know.
9. Physical Security. Only house systems that contain Confidential Information, or store Confidential Information in paper or other forms, in physically secured areas.

### d\) Highly Confidential Information

Highly Confidential Information is information that may cause serious and potentially irreparable harm to vi, its clients, employees, or other entities or individuals if disclosed or used in an unauthorized manner. Highly Confidential Information is a subset of Confidential Information that requires additional protection.

Mark Highly Confidential Information to denote its status when technically feasible. Applications or databases that contain Highly Confidential Information may be marked with an initial banner shown upon system access.

You may not remove Highly Confidential Information from vi’s environment without authorization.

You must have authorization to disclose Highly Confidential Information to an external party. Seek guidance from the Information Security Coordinator prior to disclosing Highly Confidential Information externally to ensure vi meets security standards. Some Highly Confidential Information examples include, ****but are not limited to:

1. personal information for employees, clients, business partners, or others;
2. vi intellectual property including, trade secrets, source codes, technical data, inventions,

   patents, designs, formulas, software, copyrights;

3. passwords, encryption keys, authentication codes, login/screen names; and
4. sensitive vi business information, such as budgets, financial results, or strategic plans.

### e\) Safeguarding Highly Confidential Information:

You must protect Highly Confidential Information with specific administrative, physical, and technical safeguards implemented according to risks and as prescribed by applicable laws, regulations, and standards, including \(but not necessarily limited to\):

1. **Authentication**. Electronically stored Highly Confidential Information must only be accessible to an individual after logging in to vi’s network and with specific authorization.
2. **Discussions**. Only discuss Highly Confidential Information in non-public places.
3. **Copying/ Printing/Scanning**. Do not scan, copy, or distribute Highly Confidential Information unless absolutely necessary. Take reasonable steps to ensure that others who do not have a specific business need to know do not view the information.
4. **Faxing**. When faxing Highly Confidential Information, use a cover sheet that informs the recipient that the information is vi’s Highly Confidential Information. Set fax machines to print a confirmation page after sending a fax. Locate copiers, fax machines, scanners, and other office equipment in physically secured areas and configure them to avoid storing Highly Confidential Information.
5. **Encryption**. You must encrypt Highly Confidential Information when transmitting it, whether externally or internally, or when storing it on a laptop, smartphone, or other mobile device. You should also encrypt Highly Confidential Information when storing it on a server, database, or other stationary device. Seek assistance from the Technical Operations Manager.
6. **Mailing**. Do not mail Highly Confidential Information unless absolutely necessary. Use a service that requires a signature for receipt of the information when sending Highly Confidential Information outside vi. When sending Highly Confidential Information inside vi, use a sealed security envelope marked “Highly Confidential Information.” If you use electronic media to mail Highly Confidential Information, you must encrypt and password protect it. Seek assistance from the Technical Operations Manager.
7. **Meeting Rooms**. You must only share Highly Confidential Information in meeting rooms that are physically secured. Erase any Highly Confidential Information that you write on a whiteboard or other presentation tool upon the meeting’s conclusion.
8. **Need to know**. Only access, share, or include Highly Confidential Information in documents, presentations, or other resources when there is a specific business need to know.
9. **Network Segmentation**. You may only make Highly Confidential Information available to areas of vi’s network where there is a specific business need. Highly Confidential Information must be segmented from the rest of vi’s network through the use of controls such as firewalls, access control lists, or other security mechanisms.
10. **Physical Security**. Only house systems that contain Highly Confidential Information, or store Highly Confidential Information in paper or other forms, in physically secured areas, accessible only to those with a specific business need to know.

## 9. PEOPLE: ROLES, ACCESS AND CONTROL

People are the best defense in information security. They are also the weakest link. vi grants access to its systems and data based on business roles. vi places limits on how you may use and interact with its information assets. These restrictions help lower risks and protect you and vi.

### a\) Roles

Business roles and role-based access are based on the individual’s relationship with vi and assigned activities.

1. **Employees**. Vi employees are required to undergo a criminal background check, as a condition of employment. For more information, see vi’s Background Checks Policy. vi may require employees who handle Highly Confidential Information, or as a result of a specific client need, to undergo additional background screening and testing in accordance with the Ontario Human Rights Code and other applicable legislation. Employees only have access to those vi systems and data required to perform their duties.
2. **External Parties**. vi grants systems access to approved external parties, such as contractors, vendors, service providers, business partners, or others with a demonstrated business need that cannot be reasonably met through other means vi may support different access levels for different business situations. The Technical Operations Manager or designate, reviews all external parties before vi grants access to its systems or data. Thereafter a sponsoring employee is appointed and responsible for supervising the external party, including compliance with this Policy. The sponsoring employee may request access only to those vi resources necessary to meet business needs. The sponsoring employee must also request that any access granted be terminated when the business need ends.

### b\) Identity and Access Management

Vi uses identity and access management controls to provide user accounts with appropriate privileges to employees and others. Vi will assign each individual a unique identifier using a standard algorithm \(the individual’s “primary ID”\). You should only create device or application-specific identifiers if the primary ID cannot be used. Device or application-specific identifiers must be linked to an accountable individual.

### c\) Unique User Accounts

Vi assigns unique user accounts and passwords to individuals, using their primary ID. You must not share your account or password with others. If system or other administrative accounts cannot be uniquely assigned to specific individuals, use mediated access, audit logs, or other technical controls to provide individual accountability.

### d\) Add, Change, Terminate Access

Vi restricts access to specific resources to those with a business need to know. Requests to add or change access levels should be made to the Technical Operations Manager. System and application administrators must periodically review user accounts and access levels to confirm that a legitimate business need for the access still exists.

When an employee leaves vi, the Technical Operations manager must be notified immediately. The Technical Operations Manager will immediately deactivate the individual’s account\(s\), or otherwise restrict access, whether is practicable given the circumstances. For external parties, the sponsoring employee must notify the Technical Operations Manager when there is no longer a business need for access. Any employee who takes an extended leave of absence, shall have his/her accounts restricted and/or suspended as is practicable, given the circumstances.

### e\) Authorization Levels and Least Privilege

Proper authorization levels ensure that vi only grants individuals the privileges they need to perform their assigned activities and no more. Known as least privilege access, this method minimizes risks. Least privilege applies to user and administrative access. You must not grant administrative privileges unless there is a specific business need and limit them to the extent feasible.

### f\) Role-Based Access Controls

Use role-based access control methods whenever feasible to assign authorization levels according to business functions, rather than uniquely for each individual. This method supports the least privilege approach by standardizing access. It also simplifies periodic access reviews.

## 10. ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY

Vi provides employees and others with network resources and systems to support its business requirements and functions. This section limits how you may use vi’s information assets and explains the steps you must take to protect them.

If you have any questions regarding acceptable use of vi’s resources, please also consult vi’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy and/or contact the Information Security Coordinator for additional guidance.

### a\) General Use of Information Technology Resources

vi provides network resources and systems for business purposes. Any incidental non-business use of vi’s resources must be for personal purposes only, in accordance with the Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy. Do not use vi’s resources for commercial purposes, personal gain, or any purpose that may create a real or perceived conflict of interest with vi.

Do not use vi’s resources in a manner that negatively impacts your job performance or impairs others’ abilities to do their jobs. vi’s network and systems are subject to constant monitoring.

Do not use vi’s network or systems for activities that may be deemed illegal. If vi suspects illegal activities, it may report them to the appropriate authorities and aid in any investigation or prosecution of the individuals involved.

### b\) Prohibited Activities

Vi prohibits using its resources to engage in activities such as \(but not necessarily limited to\) the following:

1. hacking, spoofing, or launching denial of service attacks;
2. gaining or attempting to gain unauthorized access to others’ networks or systems, including,

   but not limited to client networks or systems;

3. distributing or attempting to distribute malicious software \(malware\);
4. spying or attempting to install spyware or other unauthorized monitoring or surveillance tools;
5. committing criminal acts such as terrorism, fraud, or identity theft;
6. downloading, storing, or distributing child pornography or other obscene materials;
7. downloading, storing, or distributing materials in violation of another’s copyright;
8. creating undue security risks or negatively impacting the performance of vi’s network and

   systems;

9. causing embarrassment, loss of reputation, or other harm to vi;
10. uploading, downloading, or disseminating defamatory, discriminatory, vilifying, sexist, racist, abusive, rude, annoying, insulting, threatening, obscene, or otherwise inappropriate or offensive messages or media;
11. disrupting the workplace environment, creating a hostile workplace, or invading the privacy of others;
12. using encryption or other technologies in an attempt to hide illegal, unethical, or otherwise inappropriate activities; and
13. installing or distributing unlicensed or pirated software.

### c\) Desktop, Laptop, and End-User Controls

You may only access vi’s network using approved end-user devices that support our current minimum information security standards, in accordance with vi’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy. Standards for end-user devices may include protective controls and specific configurations, such as anti-virus software, patching levels, and required operating system or other software versions. vi- owned machines may be configured to automatically receive upgrades. You may be denied remote access using non-vi owned devices that do not meet current standards.

Use your own vi-provided account\(s\) to access vi’s network and systems, unless you have been specifically authorized to use a device-specific, administrative, or other account.

Screen saver passwords, also known as “workstation timeouts” or “lock screens,” secure Confidential Information by protecting active computer sessions when you step away. Locking screen savers must activate after a maximum inactivity time of 15 minutes. If you handle Highly Confidential Information, lock your screen any time you leave it unattended.

### d\) Information Handling and Storage

You must properly handle, store, and securely dispose of vi’s information in accordance with vi’s Document Retention Policy. You are responsible for any Confidential or Highly Confidential Information that you access or store. Do not allow others to view, access, or otherwise use any Confidential or Highly Confidential Information you control unless they have a specific business need to know.

Store files or other data critical to vi’s operations on regularly maintained \(backed up\) servers or other storage resources. Do not store business critical data only on end-user devices such as desktops, laptops, smartphones, or other mobile devices.

Physically secure any media containing vi information, including hard drives, CDs, disks, paper, voice recordings, removable drives \(such as thumb drives, flash drives, USB drives\), or other media. Media containing Confidential or Highly Confidential Information must be stored in a locked area when not in use.

Shred or otherwise destroy paper that contains Confidential or Highly Confidential Information prior to disposal. Return all electronic, magnetic, or optical media to the Technical Operations manager for secure disposal when it is no longer required to meet business needs.

### e\) Internet Use

The internet offers a variety of services that vi employees and contractors depend on to work effectively. However, some technologies create undue risks to vi’s assets. Some uses are not appropriate in the workplace. Vi may block or limit access to particular services, websites, or other internet-based functions according to risks and business value. Recognize that inappropriate or offensive websites may still be reachable and do not access them using vi resources.

Limit your web browsing and access to streaming media \(such as videos, audio streams or recordings, and webcasts\) to business purposes or as otherwise permitted by this Policy or vi’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy.

Never use internet peer-to-peer file sharing services, given the risks to vi’s information assets they create. Do not use internet-based remote access services to access vi’s network or systems, including desktop computers. If you need remote access, use vi-provided or authorized software as assigned by the Technical Operations Manager in accordance with vi’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy.

### f\) Email and Social Media

Do not disclose Confidential or Highly Confidential Information to unauthorized parties on blogs or social media or transmit it in unsecured emails or instant messages. Do not make postings or send messages that speak for vi or imply that you speak for vi unless you have been authorized to do so.

Use good professional judgment when drafting and sending any communications. Remember that messages may be forwarded or distributed outside your control, and your professional reputation is at stake. Email signatures should be professional, appropriate for your business role, and not unreasonably long or complex. Vi provides standard email footer text that must be placed on all externally bound email messages. Do not alter or prevent application of the standard footer to your external messages.

Never open an email attachment that you did not expect to receive, click on links, or otherwise interact with unexpected email content. Attackers frequently use these methods to transport viruses and other malware. Be cautious, even if messages appear to come from someone you know, since attackers can easily falsify \(spoof\) email senders. Vi may block some attachments or emails, based on risk.

Do not respond to an email or other message that requests Confidential or Highly Confidential Information unless you have separately verified and are certain of its origin and purpose. Even then, always protect Confidential or Highly Confidential Information as described further in this Policy.

If you have any doubts regarding the authenticity or risks associated with an email or other message you receive, contact the Technical Operations Manager immediately and before interacting with the message. Do not reply to suspicious messages, including clicking links or making unsubscribe requests. Taking those actions may simply validate your address and lead to more unwanted or risky messages.

### g\) Cloud Computing

Vi uses internet-based, outsourced services for computing and data storage activities. Vi’s cloud computing service providers store data and provide services in internet-accessible data centers located in Canada and the United States. Cloud services vary significantly in service levels and security provided.

Cloud services may present potential risks. Before using any cloud computing services to collect, create, store, or otherwise manage vi’s Confidential or Highly Confidential Information, you must obtain approval from the Technical Operations Manager.

This Policy applies to any document sharing or other internet-based services, where vi Confidential or Highly Confidential Information is stored.

### h\) Mobile Devices

Vi. Assigns mobile devices, including laptops, smartphones, and tablet computers, to employees. Employee use of such devices are subject to vi’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy, and this Policy. You must be mindful of the potential risks mobile devices can pose to vi’s information assets, so you must take appropriate steps to protect them.

Use encryption, other protection strategies \(for example, device management software, access controls, remote wiping in case your device is lost or stolen, or other security controls\), or both on any mobile device that contains Confidential or Highly Confidential Information. Mobile devices, including those that provide access to vi email, must be protected using a password or other approved authentication method.

Physically secure any mobile devices you use to access or store vi information. Never leave laptops or other devices unattended unless locked or otherwise secured. Do not leave mobile devices or the bags containing them visible in a parked car or check them as baggage on airlines or other public transportation.

Do not connect a mobile device containing vi information to any unsecured network without an up-to- date firewall configured \(or other security controls in place\). Unsecured networks include home networks, hotel networks, open or for-pay wireless hotspots, convention networks, or any other network that vi has not approved or does not control.

### i\) Remote Access

If you have a business need to access vi’s network and systems from home, while traveling, or at another location, vi may grant you remote access, in accordance with the comprehensive procedures set out in vi’s Remote Access Policy. Additional guidelines relating to remote access are also found in vi’s IT and Communications Systems Policy.

Use two-factor authentication to access vi’s network remotely. Configure remote access capabilities to limit access to only those assets and functions the Technical Operations Manager approves. You may only use vi-provided means for remote access \(for example, VPN connections, vi portal\). Do not install or setup any other remote connections, including remote desktop software, without the Technical Operations manager’s authorization.

Remote access connections should timeout \(be disconnected\) after a maximum of one hour of inactivity. Vi does not permit split tunneling or other mechanisms that bridge unsecure networks with vi’s network.

### j\) External Network Connections

Some business situations may require creating a secure connection from vi’s network to an external party’s network \(extranet\). Examples include working extensively with client systems, outsourcing, or partnering with another organization for an extended period of time. Extranet connections allow the organizations to share information and technical resources in a secure manner by connecting the two networks at their respective perimeters.

The Information Security Coordinator must review and approve all extranets and any other external connections to vi’s network before implementation. A signed business agreement between the two organizations must accompany any extranet connection. Limit connectivity to only those assets required to perform the specified functions. Vi monitors extranet connections and may deactivate them if unusual or inappropriate traffic is detected.

### k\) Wireless Network Connections

Do not connect any wireless access points, routers, or other similar devices to vi’s network unless the Technical Operations Manager has reviewed and approved them.

Secure and maintain approved wireless network \(WiFi\) connections according to current vi technical and physical security standards. Do not connect wireless access points \(WAPs\) directly to vi’s trusted network without going through a firewall or other protective controls. Deactivate WAPs when they are not in use, including during non-business hours.

Only transmit, receive, or make available Highly Confidential Information through WiFi connections using appropriate protective controls, including encryption. If you have questions regarding appropriate WiFi security measures to take when handling Highly Confidential Information, contact the Technical Operations Manager.

End-user devices that access wireless networks, such as laptops, must have personal firewalls installed and maintained according to current vi standards. Deactivate your computer’s wireless networking interface when it is not in use.

## 11. PROTECTING VI’S INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT

This section describes key safeguards that vi uses to protect and manage its information technology \(IT\) environment. You must support their use to the extent that they apply to you.

### a\) Protecting Information Assets Generally

Install and configure vi-owned computers according to current technical standards and procedures, including anti-virus software, other standard security controls, and approved operating system version and software patches. Vi supports preventive controls to avoid unauthorized activities or access to data, based on risk levels. Vi supports detective controls to timely discover unauthorized activities or access to data, including continuous system monitoring and event management.

### b\) End-User Computers and Access

Configure end-user computers to request authentication from vi’s domain at startup and user login. End- user computers may be denied network access if installed software versions do not match current standards. Users may not access vi’s network unless they have been properly authenticated.

Configure user accounts to require strong passwords, in accordance with standards outlined in Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy. To protect against password guessing and other brute force attacks, vi will deactivate user accounts after five failed login attempts. Reactivation may be based on a timeout or manual reset according to risk and technical feasibility.

Secure remote access points and require two-factor authentication. Encrypt authentication credentials during transmission across any network, either internal or external.

### c\) Passwords and User Credentials

Select strong passwords and protect all user credentials, including passwords, tokens, badges, smart cards, or other means of identification and authentication. Always follow password selection requirements as set out in Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy. Automate password rule enforcement to the extent technically feasible.

Treat passwords as Highly Confidential Information. You are required to change your password periodically according to current vi standards. If you have reason to believe that your password has been compromise, change your password immediately and report the incident to the Technical Operations Manager.

Protect your passwords at all times by:

1. Not disclosing your passwords to anyone, including anyone who claims to be from vi;
2. Not sharing your passwords with others \(including co-workers, clients, or family\);
3. Not writing down your passwords or otherwise recording them in an unsecure manner;
4. Not using save password features for applications, unless provided or authorized by vi;
5. Not using the same password for different systems or accounts, except where single sign on features are automated; and
6. Not reusing passwords.

Vi’s Information Technology \(IT\) and Communications Policy defines additional steps to protect passwords for administrative or device-specific accounts.

### d\) Perimeter Controls

Perimeter controls secure vi’s network against external attacks. Use firewalls, configured according to current technical standards and procedures, to separate vi’s trusted network from the internet or internet-facing environments.

Vi regularly implements additional perimeter controls including intrusion detection and prevention services, data loss prevention software, specific router or other network configurations, or various forms of network monitoring according to risks. Do not create internet connections outside perimeter controls.

### e\) Data and Network Segmentation

Vi may use technical controls, such as firewalls, access control lists, or other mechanisms, to segment some data or areas of its network according to risks. Segment Highly Confidential Information from the rest of vi’s network, to the extent technically feasible and reasonable. Do not alter network segmentation plans without approval from the Technical Operations Manager.

### f\) Encryption

Vi uses encryption to protect Confidential and Highly Confidential Information according to risks. Encryption may be applied to stored data \(data-at-rest\) and transmitted data \(data-in-transit\). Only use generally accepted encryption algorithms and products approved by the Technical Operations Manager. Periodically review encryption products and algorithms for any known risks.

Encryption algorithms use keys to transform and secure data. Because they allow decryption of the protected data, proper key management is critical. Select encryption keys to maximize protection levels, to the extent feasible and reasonable. Treat them as Highly Confidential Information.

Ensure that keys are available when needed to support data decryption by using secure storage methods and creating and maintaining secure backups. Track access to keys. Keys should never be known or available to only a single individual. Change encryption keys on a periodic basis according to risks.

### g\) Data and Media Disposal

When vi retires or otherwise removes computing, network, or office equipment \(such as copiers or fax machines\) or other information assets that may contain Confidential or Highly Confidential Information from the business, specific steps must be taken to scrub or otherwise render the media unreadable.

Simply deleting files or reformatting disks is not sufficient to prevent data recovery. Either physically destroy media, according to applicable waste disposal regulations, or scrub it using data wiping software that meets generally accepted data destruction standards. For example, see the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Special Publication 800-88, Guidelines for Media Destruction.

### h\) Log Management and Retention

Vi logs system and user activities on network, computing, or other information assets according to risks. Security controls or other network elements may also produce logs.

Secure log data and files to prevent tampering and retain them according to vi’s Document Retention Policy. Regularly review logs, using automated means where feasible, to identify any anomalous activities that may indicate a security incident.

### i\) Physical \(Environmental\) Security

Vi uses physical safeguards to avoid theft, intrusions, unauthorized use, or other abuses of its information assets. You must comply with vi’s current physical security policies and procedures at all times, including those set out in vi’s Health and Safety Policy. You must also abide by the following general guidelines related to physical security of vi’s information assets:

1. position computer screens where information on the screens cannot be seen by unauthorized parties;
2. do not display Confidential and Highly Confidential Information on a computer screen where unauthorized individuals can view it;
3. log off or shut down your workstation when leaving for an extended time period or at the end of your work day;
4. house servers or other computing or network elements \(other than end-user equipment\) in secure data centers or other areas approved by the Technical Operations Manager;
5. do not run network cabling through unsecured areas unless it is carrying only Public Information or otherwise protected data, such as encrypted data;
6. deactivate network ports that are not in use; and
7. store end-user devices that are not in use for an extended period of time in a secure area or

   securely dispose of them.

### j\) Disaster Preparedness \(Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery\)

Vi develops, maintains, and periodically tests disaster preparedness plans. These plans support continuity of operations and systems availability if a disaster or other unplanned business impacting event occurs. The plans must be developed, reviewed, and tested on a regular basis. Treat disaster preparedness plans as Confidential Information.

System administrators must perform regular data backups for the information assets they maintain as directed by the Technical Operations Manager. When selecting a backup strategy, balance the business criticality of the data with the resources required and any impact to users and network resources. Protect backups according to the information classification level of the data stored. Document and periodically test restoration procedures.

## 12. MANAGING VI’S INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT

The Technical Operations Manager is responsible for managing vi’s IT operations and related activities at vi.

Only vi-supplied or approved software, hardware, and information systems, whether procured or developed, may be installed in vi’s IT environment or connected to vi’s network.

The Technical Operations manager must approve and manage all changes to vi’s production IT environment to avoid unexpected business impacts. Direct questions regarding IT operations to the Technical Operations Manager. Development environments must comply with this Policy and current standards, as set by the Technical Operations Manager from time to time, to minimize information security risks.

### a\) Procurement

Only the Technical Operations Manager, or those individuals authorized by the Technical Operations Manager, may procure information assets for use in or connection to vi’s network. This Policy applies whether software or other assets are purchased, open source, or made available to vi at no cost. Seek guidance from the Technical Operations Manager early in the software development process to identify and manage information security risks prior to implementation. Before using cloud computing services to access, store, or manage Confidential or Highly Confidential Information, you must obtain authorization from the Technical Operations Manager.

### b\) Asset Management

Track and document all information assets, including hardware, software, and other equipment, using vi’s asset management systems. This inventory tracking should include operating system levels and all installed software and software versions to support vulnerability identification and mitigation. Update the asset inventory as assets are removed from the business. Confidential or Highly Confidential Information must have an assigned data owner who is responsible for tracking its location, uses, and any disclosures. Properly dispose of all data and media to help avoid a breach of Confidential or Highly Confidential Information in accordance with this Policy.

### c\) Authorized Environments and Authorities

Only authorized personnel, or other project personnel approved by the Technical Operations Manager, may install and connect hardware or software in vi’s IT environment. Do not convert end-user computers to servers or other shared resources without assistance from the Technical Operations Manager. Limit administrative, or privileged, systems access to those individuals with a business need to know. The Technical Operations Manager must distribute administrative access and information regarding administrative processes to more than one individual to minimize risks.

Internet connections and internet-facing environments may present significant information security risks to vi. The technical Operations Manager must approve any new or changed internet connections or internet-facing environments.

### d\) Change Management

Vi maintains a change management process to minimize business impact or disruptions when changes are made in vi’s production IT environment. Change requests must be accompanied by an action plan that includes assigned roles and responsibilities, implementation milestones, testing procedures, and a rollback plan, in the event the change fails.

Implement and maintain a change management process to track identified problems, fixes, and releases during software development. Design these processes to include code archiving \(versioning\) tools so that earlier versions can be recovered and rebuilt, if necessary.

### e\) Application and Software Development

To avoid any undue or unexpected impact to vi’s production IT environment, application and software development activities, including system testing, must take place in reasonably segmented environments. Maintain segregation of duties between development and operations. Developers may be granted limited access to production environments where personnel and expertise availability is limited, but only for specific troubleshooting or support purposes. Software development must take place in authorized environments.

Use security-by-design principles to identify potential information security risks and resolve them early in the development process. Seek guidance from the Technical Operations Manager, critical vendors, industry experts, and best practices to identify and avoid application-level security risks. Pay particular attention to protecting Highly Confidential Information through encryption or other appropriate means. Use defensive coding techniques and regular code review and application-level scanning to identify and remediate any information security issues before releasing software.

## 13. INCIDENT REPORTING AND RESPONSE

The Technical Operations Manager maintains a security incident reporting and response process that ensures management notifications are made based on the seriousness of the incident. The Technical Operations Manager investigates all reported or detected incidents and documents the outcome, including any mitigation activities or other remediation steps taken.

Immediately notify the Technical Operations Manager if you discover a security incident or suspect a breach in vi’s information security controls. vi maintains various forms of monitoring and surveillance to detect security incidents, but you may be the first to become aware of a problem. Early detection and response can mitigate damages and minimize further risk to vi.

Treat any information regarding security incidents as Highly Confidential Information and do not share it, either internally or externally, without specific authorization.

### a\) Security Incident Examples

Security incidents vary widely and include physical and technical issues. Some examples of security incidents that you should report include, but are not limited to:

1. loss or suspected compromise of user credentials or physical access devices \(including passwords, tokens, keys, badges, smart cards, or other means of identification and authentication\);
2. suspected malware infections, including viruses, Trojans, spyware, worms, or any anomalous reports or messages from anti-virus software or personal firewalls;
3. loss or theft of any device that contains vi information \(other than Public Information\), including computers, laptops, tablet computers, smartphones, USB drives, disks, or other storage media;
4. suspected entry \(hacking\) into vi’s network or systems by unauthorized persons;
5. any breach or suspected breach of Confidential or Highly Confidential Information;
6. any attempt by any person to obtain passwords or other Confidential or Highly Confidential Information in person or by phone, email, or other means \(sometimes called social engineering, or in the case of email, phishing\); and
7. any other any situation that appears to violate this Policy or otherwise create undue risks to vi’s information assets.

### b\) Compromised Devices

If you become aware of a compromised computer or other device:

1. immediately deactivate \(unplug\) any network connections, but do not power down the equipment as valuable information regarding the incident may be lost if the device is turned off; and
2. immediately notify the Technical Operations manager.

### c\) Event Management

The Technical Operations Manager defines and maintains a Cyber Incident Response Plan to manage information security incidents. Report all suspected incidents, as described in this Policy, and then defer to the incident response process. Do not impede the incident response process or conduct your own investigation unless the Technical Operations Manager specifically requests or authorizes it.

### d\) Breach Notification

Vi may be required to report security incidents that result in the exposure or loss of certain kinds of information, or that affect certain services or infrastructure, to various authorities, affected individuals or organizations whose data was compromised, or both, in accordance with local laws and regulations. Breaches of Highly Confidential Information \(and especially personal information\) are the most likely to carry these obligations. The Cyber Incident Response Plan includes a step to review all incidents for any required breach notifications. Coordinate all external notifications with the Technical Operations Manager and vi’s legal counsel. Do not act on your own or make any external notifications without prior guidance and authorization.

## 14. SERVICE PROVIDERS: RISKS AND GOVERNANCE

Vi maintains a service provider governance program to oversee service providers that interact with vi’s systems or Confidential or Highly Confidential Information. The service provider governance program includes processes to track service providers, evaluate service provider capabilities, and periodically assess service provider risks and compliance with this Policy.

### a\) Service Provider Approval Required

Obtain approval from the Technical Operations Manager before engaging a service provider to perform functions that involve access to vi’s systems or Confidential or Highly Confidential Information.

### b\) Contract Obligations

Service providers that access vi’s systems or Confidential or Highly Confidential Information must agree by contract to comply with applicable laws and this Policy or equivalent information security measures. Vi may require service providers to demonstrate their compliance with applicable laws and this Policy by submitting to independent audits or other forms of review or certification based on risks.

## 15. CLIENT INFORMATION

From time to time, vi may create, receive, and manage data on behalf of our clients. With guidance from the Technical Operations Manager, vi develops, implements, and maintains an appropriate process and procedures to manage client data intake and protection.

Client intake and protection processes may vary but must include, at minimum, means for \(1\) identifying client data and any pertinent requirements prior to data intake or creation; \(2\) maintaining an inventory of client data created or received; and \(3\) ensuring vi implements and maintains appropriate information security measures, including proper data and media disposal when vi no longer has a business need to retain the client data \(or is no longer permitted to do so by client agreement\).

### a\) Requirements Identification

Identify any pertinent client data requirements prior to data intake or creation according to the client’s data intake and protection process. Requirements may be contractual, the result of applicable law or regulations, or both.

### b\) Intake Management

Client data intake processes and procedures must provide for secure data transfer. Maintain an inventory of client data that includes, at a minimum:

1. a description of the client data;
2. the location\(s\) where the data is stored;
3. who is authorized to access the data \(by category or role, if appropriate\);
4. whether the data is Confidential or Highly Confidential Information;
5. how long the data is to be retained \(using criteria, if appropriate\); and
6. any specific contractual or regulatory obligations or other identified data protection or management requirements.

Although vi does not generally have access to client-provided personal information, in the event vi receives any client-provided personal information, such information must be treated as Highly Confidential Information. To minimize risks for clients and vi, engage clients in an ongoing dialogue to determine whether business objectives can be met without transferring personal information to vi.

### c\) Client Data Protection

Protect all client data vi creates or receives in accordance with this Policy and the data’s information classification level, whether Confidential or Highly Confidential Information, in addition to any specific client-identified requirements.

### d\) Client Data and Media Disposal

Ensure that any client data, or media containing client data, is securely disposed of when it is no longer required for vi business purposes, or as required by client agreement. Update the applicable client data inventory accordingly.

## 16. RISK MANAGEMENT

Vi supports an ongoing risk management action cycle to \(1\) enforce this Policy; \(2\) identify information security risks; \(3\) develop procedures, safeguards, and controls; and \(4\) verify that safeguards and controls are in place and working properly.

### a\) Risk Assessment and Analysis

Vi maintains a risk assessment program to identify information security risks across its IT and communications systems, including application software, databases, operating systems, servers, and other equipment, such as network components.

The main purpose of vi’s risk assessment program is to identify areas where vi may be vulnerable to exposure, and the steps it can take to improve its security posture.

Risk assessments help vi determine where to prioritize its information and data security resources, based on identified risk levels and potential harms of exposure.

The Operations Department conducts and coordinates internal and external risk assessment activities that may take several forms, including: analyses, audits, reviews, scans, and penetration testing. Do not take any actions to avoid, impact, or otherwise impede risk assessments.

Only the Technical Operations Manager is authorized to coordinate risk assessments. Seek approval from the Operations Department prior to engaging in any risk assessment activities or disclosing any assessment reports outside vi.

#### a. Vulnerability Testing

On at least a monthly basis, vi performs a comprehensive internal vulnerability assessment of vi’s IT and communications systems, using a third party cyber security exposure tool to identify and report noted vulnerabilities.

The assessment tool generates a detailed report which identifies any potential exposure to vi’s IT and Communications systems, with corresponding risk levels. The Operations Department analyzes these reports, and addresses any identified vulnerabilities with appropriate measures, to eliminate and/or mitigate potential exposure to vi’s IT and communications systems.

Vi addresses critical and high-risk vulnerabilities immediately, while all medium and low-risk vulnerabilities are addressed as is reasonably practicable.

The Operations Department prepares summaries of the results of vi’s monthly vulnerability assessments and makes them available to clients upon request. Any such requests should be directed to the Operations Department.

#### b. Penetration Testing

At least on an annual basis, vi conducts penetration testing of its externally facing IT and communications systems to identify and exploit any vulnerabilities, and to determine whether unauthorized access or other malicious activities to vi’s IT and communications systems is possible through these vulnerabilities.

Vi contracts with a third-party cyber security specialist consulting firm to perform comprehensive penetration tests of its IT and communications systems, using both automated and manual processes in accordance with the Penetration Testing Execution Standard \(PTES\).

Upon completion of the penetration test, a report will be generated which identifies any potential vulnerabilities and successful exploitations of vi’s IT and information systems. The report shall prioritize vulnerabilities by risk level from low to critical. The Operations Department will review the report and ensure all high-risk and critical vulnerabilities are dealt with immediately and effective remediation is implemented within 30 days, or earlier if reasonably possible. Medium and low-risk vulnerabilities will be remedied within 90 days.

The Operations Department prepares a summary of vi’s annual external penetration test and makes the summary available to clients upon request. Any such requests should be directed to the Operations Department.

### b\) Remediation and Mitigation Plans

The Technical Operations Manager maintains and oversees remediation and mitigation plans to address risk assessment findings according to risk levels.

Vulnerabilities are dealt with on a case by basis within the Operation Department’s discretion. As a general practice, critical and high-risk vulnerabilities must be addressed and remedied as quickly as possible, while medium and low risk vulnerabilities are to be addressed and remedied as is reasonably practicable.

The Technical Operations manager reconciles vulnerability assessment reports on an ongoing basis to ensure vulnerabilities are addressed effectively, and in a timely fashion.

On an annual basis, the comprehensive penetration assessment report is reconciled with the monthly vulnerability assessment reports to ensure that the monthly assessments are demonstrably effective in identifying vulnerabilities to vi’s IT and communications systems on an ongoing basis.

In the event the Operations Department is not satisfied that the monthly vulnerability assessments are effective in identifying potential vulnerabilities, the Operations Department shall employ alternate assessment tools and protocols.

### c\) Vulnerability Management

Manufacturers, security researchers, and others regularly identify security vulnerabilities in hardware, software, and other equipment. In most cases, the manufacturer or developer provides a patch or other fix to remediate the vulnerability. In some situations, the vulnerability cannot be fully remediated, but configurations can be changed or other steps taken to mitigate the risk created.

The Operations Department maintains a process to identify and track applicable vulnerabilities, and scan devices for current patch status. The Operations Department will schedule any necessary updates using standard change management processes and according to risk level. All employees are required to cooperate in this process and make all vi-owned devices available to the Technical Operations Manager for timely patching and related activities on demand.

## 17. COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT

Vi maintains compliance management processes to enforce this Policy. If compliance management processes indicate that you may have acted contrary to this Policy, you may be contacted by the Technical Operations Manager to explain your actions.

## 18. CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO COMPLY

All employees are required to read and comply with the terms of this policy at all times.

Any violation of this policy may be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause, in accordance with the vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 19. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The Technical Operations Manager is responsible for the administration of this policy. If employees have questions regarding this policy, or about information and data security, that are not addressed in this policy, they may contact the Technical Operations Manager for more information.

In accordance with vi’s corporate policies, practices and procedures, this policy will be reviewed on at least an annual basis.

Vi expressly reserves the right to change, modify or delete any provisions of this Policy without notice, in the future.

