---
description: viGlobal Employment Policies and Procedures
---

# 10. Information Technology \(IT\) & Communications Systems Policy

## 1. GENERAL

VIDESKTOP INC.’s \(the “vi”\) computers, networks, communications systems and other information technology \(IT\) serve as the backbone of vi’s business operations, and critical to our day to day operations. Access to these systems is also provided to employees to promote effective communication and working practices within our organization. This policy outlines the standards employees must observe when using these systems, the circumstances in which vi will monitor their use, and actions that may be taken when this policy is breached.

## 2. SCOPE

This policy applies to all of vi’s employees, and to any contractors, volunteers, or agents who have access to vi’s IT and communication systems. For clarity, it applies whether or not those systems are accessed through or by vi owned systems, or made available through vi, including any access or use of those systems by employees through their own resources, whether such access is remote or on vi premises. These systems include, but are not limited to:

* Email systems and email accounts.
* Vi’s intranet.
* Internet access.
* Instant messaging services.
* Storage clouds.
* Telephones and voicemail systems, including landline and mobile telephones, and smartphones
* Printers, photocopiers and scanners.
* Fax machines.
* Computers, laptops and tablets.
* Computer networks and servers.
* Removable media devices \(including hard drives, flash drives, and external hard drives\), peripheral

  equipment, software, and any device or media capable of storing data.

* Cameras, video and audio recording equipment.

## 3. EQUIPMENT SECURITY AND PASSWORDS

Each employee is responsible for the security of the IT and communications equipment allocated to or used by them and must not allow that equipment to be used by anyone other than the employee except in accordance with this policy. Each employee is responsible for the security of any computer used by the employee. Employees should lock the computer or log off when leaving it unattended, including when leaving the office, to prevent unauthorized users accessing vi’s systems.

### a\) Passwords

Employees must use passwords on all IT and communications systems, in accordance with guidelines provided by vi. Temporary passwords are assigned by the Technical Operations Manager, who maintains the ability to reset passwords at any time. Employees are thereafter required to set their own passwords in accordance with this policy.

Employees must adhere to the following password requirements:

* Passwords are confidential. Employees should not share them with anyone except members of the IT Department, or as required and authorized by vi.
* Passwords must not be written down.
* Personal passwords used outside of work should not be used for work purposes.
* Passwords must be changed regularly \(every 180 days\) as required by vi.

Vi requires that all passwords must include the following characteristics:

* Passwords must be at least eight \(8\) characters long and contain a mix of letters and numbers.
* Passwords must contain characters from three of the following four categories:
  * Uppercase characters \(A through Z\)
  * Lowercase characters \(a through z\)
  * Base 10 digits \(0 through 9\)
  * Non alphanumeric characters: ~!@\#$%^&\*\_-+=\`\|\\(\){}\[\]:;"'&lt;&gt;,.?/
* Passwords maximum age will be 180 days.
* Last 5 passwords will be stored and not be able to be reused.
* Password patterns will not be allowed. \(ex: Password1, Password2, Password3...\)

Vi mandates that any account will be locked after five \(5\) failed incorrect password inputs.

### b\) Anti-Malware

Vi’s IT and communications systems are protected by anti-malware and other security software applications and programs. The Technical Operations Manager is responsible for ensuring all systems have been updated with the latest and most effective anti-malware tools on the market. The Technical Operations Manager reviews vi’s anti-malware programs regularly, and at least once every quarter.

Employees are required to cooperate with any updates or additional software installations, as directed by the Technical Operations Manager. Employees are also prohibited from removing, disabling, modifying, or otherwise tampering with any vi anti-malware tools, without exception. Any employees aware of a device without anti-malware software, up to date software, or defective software, are to cease using the device immediately, and contact the Technical Operations Manager for support.

In the unlikely event that vi or an employee requires for anti-malware software installed on a device to be de-activated or disabled for a valid business reason, the employee must first contact the Technical Operations Manager, who will de-activate or disable to the software, if appropriate in his discretion. Prior to disabling the software, the Technical Operations Manager will perform a security assessment and implement additional security controls, if possible during the time the software is disabled. The anti- malware software will be re-installed or re-activated, as the case may be, as soon as practicable thereafter.

### c\) Mobile Devices- Laptops, Smart Phones, Tablets

Vi may assign laptop computers, smart phones, tablets and other mobile devices to employees to assist them in the performance of their duties. All mobile devices, shall remain at all times, vi property. All Company mobile devices are managed by the Technical Operations Manager, who keeps a regular inventory of such devices, and conducts regular audits for accountability, software updates and replacement.

Vi secures all its mobile devices through third party encryption services, and has the ability to remotely wipe and disable any devises issued to employees in the event they are lost stolen or there is a data, or other security breach.

Notwithstanding the steps vi takes to secure its devices, employees are required to keep all devices secured at all times, including ensuring they are in a safe and secure location when they are off vi premises. Employees are prohibited from leaving these devices unattended in public places, such as coffee shops or libraries, and shall not leave them unattended for extended periods/overnight in vehicles, or other locations where they are not locked up and secure.

All mobile devices must be returned to the Company upon request, without exception, and immediately upon termination of employment, for any reason.

### d\) Removable Media/Storage Devices

Vi may make available to employees, certain removable media/storage devices, which include but are not limited to hard drives, flash drives, CD’s, DVD’s, tapes, disk drives, or other external digital media. Any media devices provided to employees are Vi property and subject to this Policy.

All media devices must be approved by vi prior to use, and shall remain in the care of the Technical Operations Manager. Devices may be assigned to employees, or may be made available upon request, as the case may be. The Technical Operations Manager shall provide media devices to employees in accordance with valid business needs, and shall keep records of all devices that have been provided to employees. Employees may be required to “sign-out” certain media devices. Devices are to be returned to vi immediately upon request.

Employees are prohibited from storing scooped data, source codes, customer data or identifiable personal information on media devices, and/or using any such physical devices to transfer such data.

Employees shall exercise all diligent efforts to keep media devices secure in order to prevent losses or thefts. This includes ensuring that media devices are stored in a secure and locked location when not in use, both at the office and outside of the office. Media devices are not to be left overnight in an unsecured location, such as an unlocked office or personal vehicle. Employees must advise the Technical Operations Manager immediately in the event a device is missing. Failure to do so will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause.

All outside, or third party removable media devices are prohibited from being connected \(whether directly through USB or indirectly through Bluetooth, Wifi, LAN or alternate connectivity process\) to vi IT and communication systems without the prior approval from the Technical Operations Manager. As general practice, the use of outside removable media devises, shall not be permitted for vi business purposes except in the most limited cases.

Employees must inform vi immediately if they suspect a device connected to vi’s systems is infected with a virus, or is otherwise compromised or unsecured. Employees are also required to notify vi immediately if any media devices are defective or have otherwise stopped working or experience other issues. Faulty and/or damaged devices must always be returned to vi, and shall never be disposed of by employees.

Vi will take all reasonable steps to ensure that any approved media devices are fully encrypted with the latest technological protection tools to limit potential risks to vi.

Upon termination of employment for any reason, employees must return all IT and communications equipment to vi, and provide all passwords related to IT and communications systems to vi.

## 4. SYSTEM AND DATA SECURITY

Vi operates computer, data and communications networks and related systems to support all of its business functions. To protect these networks, and the information accessible through them, employees must adhere to the terms of this policy, vi’s Information and Data Security Policy, and any additional policies and guidelines issued by vi, from time to time.

Employees must not access vi’s systems using the password or login information of another employee, or permit another person to access vi’s systems using the employee’s own password or login information.

Employees must not access, alter, or delete any document or other data stored on vi’s systems unless authorized to do so in performance of the employee’s duties. Employees must not delete, destroy or modify existing systems, programs, information or data held on vi’s computers, telephones, tablets, or other devices unless authorized to do so in performance of the employee’s duties.

Employees must not download or install software from external sources onto any vi computer, telephone, tablet or other device without authorization from vi. This includes software programs, instant messaging programs, screensavers, photos, video clips and music files and other digital files. Incoming files and data should always be virus-checked in accordance with vi’s guidelines before they are downloaded.

Employees must not attempt to gain access to restricted areas of vi’s network, or to any password- protected information, unless authorized to do so in performance of the employee’s duties.

Employees who suspect, or otherwise become aware of a possible data breach are required to notify the Technical Operations Manager immediately, who will investigate the matter in accordance with vi’s data protection policies and procedures.

## 5. REMOTE ACCESS

Vi permits employees to access vi IT and communications systems remotely, so long as such access is through an encrypted VPN tunnel or other secured network approved by vi, in accordance with the comprehensive procedures set out in vi’s Remote Access Policy. Additional guidelines relating to remote access are also found in vi’s Information and Data Security Policy.

Employees are not permitted to access vi IT and communications systems from unsecured and/or public Wi-Fi networks, including those which are password protected, such as at a coffee shop or hotel. If a connection is needed in a public environment, employees should use a personal hotspot on their company provide cell phone.

In most cases, employees remotely access vi IT and communications systems through vi owned devices. In limited cases, authorized employees may be permitted to remotely access vi IT and communications systems through personal devices such as desktop computers. In these cases, vi will provide employees with monitored access to a secured VPN connection through additional software programs they will be required to download to their personal devices. Any such programs will be provided by the Technical Operations Manager, and employees are strictly prohibited from using any other programs to access the VPN connections, including downloading programs that have not be provided/authorized by vi. Employees are required to download all software updates as the case may be, in accordance with written instructions provided by the Technical Operations Manager.

## 6. TELEPHONE AND VOICEMAIL USE

Vi provides landline telephones, and may provide mobile telephones, to employees for use in performing their job duties. Telephone calls are an important method of communication with co-workers and may be the first or only point of contact third parties have with vi. Employees must be courteous and informative in all telephone calls made or received on vi’s behalf.

Employees using a landline or mobile telephone to discuss vi’s confidential information should ensure that their conversation cannot be overheard.

Employees with dedicated landline or mobile telephones are required to maintain a password protected voicemail account and must check any messages left on this account at least once daily.

In using landline or mobile telephones provided by vi, employees must avoid incurring charges that are not approved by vi \(including long distance charges, roaming charges, data charges and texting charges\). Vi may require an employee to repay charges incurred by the employee in using vi’s telephone for personal purposes.

Unless otherwise authorized by vi, an employee may not use a personal mobile telephone for work purposes.

Vi prohibits employees from talking, texting, emailing or otherwise using a mobile telephone for vi’s business while operating a vehicle. Employees are required to abide by all applicable legal prohibitions on the use of a mobile telephone while operating a vehicle.

## 7. EMAIL, TEXT MESSAGING AND INSTANT MESSAGING

Vi provides employees with access to email, and may also provide access to text messaging or online instant messaging systems for use in performing their job duties. Employees must not use personal email, text messaging or instant messaging systems for work purposes. Employees should always consider whether email, text messaging or instant messaging is the appropriate method for a particular communication, as opposed to communication in person, by telephone, or by another form of electronic messaging.

**Passwords**. This policy’s rules regarding passwords apply to use of vi’s email, text messaging or online instant messaging systems.

**Email**. Employees must use secure encrypted email provided by vi to protect vi’s confidential information sent via email. Employees should access their work emails, as is practicable given their duties and responsibilities. Employees must also stay in touch by remote access when traveling in connection with work, and use an out of office response when away from the office for more than a day. Employees should try to respond to emails marked “high priority” as soon as possible, but in any event within 24 hours.

**Message Content**. Employees must not send abusive, obscene, discriminatory, harassing, derogatory, defamatory, or otherwise inappropriate messages via email, text message or instant message. Anyone who feels that they have been harassed, bullied, or threatened, or who is offended by material received from a colleague in this manner should inform their manager immediately.

Employees should take care with the content of emails, text messages or instant messages. Incorrect or improper statements can give rise to claims for discrimination, harassment, defamation, breach of confidentiality or breach of contract. Employees have no control over where a message may be forwarded by the recipient, and should avoid saying anything which would cause offence or embarrassment if it was forwarded to colleagues or third parties, or if it was made public.

**General Rules**. Employees should:

* Inform the sender of a message when the employee receives a message intended for someone else.
* Respect the privacy of others by using the “Bcc” address line in email when appropriate.
* Review the content and recipients of a message before sending it.
* Label messages appropriately to indicate their sensitivity \(e.g., “For Internal Use Only”\).

Employees should not:

* Send or forward personal messages through vi’s systems which the employee would not want vi, a co-worker, or a third party to read.
* Send or forward spam, chain mail, junk mail, cartoons, jokes or gossip.
* Contribute to system congestion by sending trivial messages, copying or forwarding emails to

  those who do not have a real need to receive them, or using “reply all” unnecessarily on an email

  with a large distribution list.

* Sell or advertise using vi’s communication systems or broadcast messages about lost property, 

  sponsorship or charitable appeals.

* Agree to terms, enter into contractual commitments or make representations by email, text

  message or instant message, unless appropriate authority has been obtained from vi. A name

  typed at the end of an email is a signature in the same way as a name written at the end of a letter.

* Send messages from another person’s email account, mobile telephone or instant messaging

  account \(unless authorized\) or under an assumed name.

## 8. INTERNET USE

Internet access is provided through vi’s IT and communications systems solely for business purposes.

Employees should not access any web page or download any image, document or other file from the internet which could be regarded as illegal, offensive or in bad taste. Even web content which is legal in Canada may be in sufficient bad taste to fall within this prohibition. As a general rule, if any person \(whether intended to view the page or not\) might be offended by the contents of a page, or if the fact that our software has accessed the page or file might be a source of embarrassment if made public, then viewing it will be a breach of this policy.

Employees must not use vi’s systems to participate in any internet chat room, post messages on any internet message board or set up or log text or information on a blog or wiki, even on the employee’s non-working time, unless authorized to do so in performance of the employee’s duties.  
 Vi, may at its sole discretion, block access to various websites. Employees are prohibited from attempting to bypass Vi restrictions in order to access websites that are blocked. In the event an employee has a valid business purpose which requires access to a blocked website, the employee must contact vi so that vi can determine whether to grant access to the website on a temporary or permanent basis.

## 9. PERSONAL USE OF IT AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS

Personal use of vi’s IT and communications systems \(including work email, text messaging or instant messaging, internet access, and telephones\) is permitted subject to the following rules:

* Use must not involve unprofessional or inappropriate content.
* Use must not interfere with an employee’s work responsibilities or productivity.
* Use must not incur additional costs for vi.

Personal use of vi’s IT and communications systems may be monitored as described in this policy. Employees should have no expectation of privacy in the use of vi’s IT and communications systems for personal purposes.

Vi may, at its discretion, prevent access to certain telephone numbers, internet sites or other electronic communications if personal use is considered disruptive, excessive, unprofessional, harassing or abusive, or otherwise interferes with Vi business.

## 10. MONITORING

Vi monitors the access and use of its IT and communications systems including its computer networks, telephones, email, text messaging, instant messaging, voicemail, and/or internet use as reasonably required to protect its business interests and to meet its legal obligations. These purposes include, but are not limited to:

* Protecting the integrity of vi’s IT and communications systems. This includes protection against computer viruses, damage to software or hardware, loss of Vi documents or information, and protecting against excessive telephone or computer usage.
* Protecting against unauthorized access or disclosure of vi’s confidential information, proprietary information, or employee or third party personal information in vi’s control.
* Protecting employees against discriminatory, harassing or violent behavior from co-workers or third parties.
* Monitoring the use of email, text messaging, instant messaging and telephone systems to ensure that use is in accordance with this policy.
* Finding lost messages or data, or to retrieve messages lost due to computer failure.
* Assisting in investigations of alleged wrongdoing or violations of employer policies.
* Complying with any other legal obligation.

To achieve these purposes, vi may access, intercept or review any information created on, transmitted to, received or printed from, or stored or recorded on vi’s IT and communication systems. Monitoring may include, without limitation, the interception, accessing, recording, disclosing, inspecting, reviewing, retrieving and printing of transactions, messages, communications, postings, log-ins, recordings and other uses of IT and communications systems, including installation, removal or alteration of software or hardware and may also include keystroke capturing, GPS locating and other monitoring procedures or applications.

Vi may store copies of such data and communications acquired through monitoring for a period of time after they are created and may delete such copies from time to time without notice.

Employees should have no expectation of privacy in any content created, transmitted, received, accessed or stored on vi’s IT and communications systems. Employees should not use vi’s IT and communications systems for any matter that the employee wants to be kept private or confidential from vi.

While Employees should have no expectation of privacy in the use of vi’s IT and communications systems, any employee personal information collected in the process of monitoring will be used or disclosed only as required to protect vi’s business interests and to meet its legal obligations, and in compliance with vi’s Privacy Policy, as applicable.

## 11. PROHIBITED USE

Employees are prohibited from using vi IT and communications systems for any inappropriate or illegal purpose. This includes but is not limited to:

* Any purpose that violates vi’s policies.
* Excessive use that interferes with the employee’s job duties.
* Disclosing vi’s confidential or proprietary information, or that of a third party, including third party

  personal information.

* Any use that violates the intellectual property rights of third parties.
* Carrying out illegal activities.
* Representing your personal views as those of vi.
* Online gambling.
* Forwarding spam.
* Creating, viewing, accessing, transmitting or downloading any inappropriate material, including:
  * pornography;
  * offensive, obscene, or criminal material;
  * material which is likely to cause embarrassment to vi or to our clients;
  * false and defamatory statements about any person or organization;
  * material which is discriminatory, derogatory, or which promotes hatred or violence;
  * any information in breach of copyright;
  * confidential information about vi, its employees, or its clients \(except as authorized in the

    proper performance of an employee’s work\);

  * any other information which is likely to create criminal or civil liability for vi or the employee.

Where evidence of misuse is found, vi may undertake a more detailed investigation, which may or may not include involving the examination and disclosure of monitoring records to those appointed to

undertake the investigation and to any witnesses or managers involved in employee discipline. If necessary, such information may be provided to the police in connection with a criminal investigation.

## 12. CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO COMPLY

All employees are required to read and comply with the terms of this policy at all times.

Any violation of this policy may be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause, in accordance with the vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 13. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The Technical Operations Manager is responsible for the administration of this policy. If employees have questions regarding this policy, or about IT and communications systems, that are not addressed in this policy, they may contact the Technical Operations Manager for more information.

In accordance with vi’s corporate policies, practices and procedures, this policy will be reviewed on at least an annual basis.

Vi expressly reserves the right to change, modify or delete any provisions of this Policy without notice, in the future.

