---
description: viGlobal Security Policies and Procedures
---

# 11. Remote Access Policy

## 1. GENERAL

VIDESKTOP Inc. \(“vi”\) has implemented this Remote Access Policy \(the “Policy”\) to promote best practices, including ensuring adequate information security practices, when employees access vi IT and communications systems and assets outside of the office. This Policy applies in all situations where employees work remotely on behalf of vi, including when they are travelling for business related purposes, or when working from home on a temporary or extended basis. This Policy is subject to and complements additional policies, procedures and guidelines set out in vi’s IT and Communications Systems Policy and its Information and Data Security Policy.

The purpose of this Policy is to define standards, procedures, and restrictions for connecting to vi’s internal networks from external hosts via remote access technology, and/or for utilizing the Internet for business purposes via third-party wireless Internet service providers \(a.k.a. “hotspots”\). Vi’s IT and communications systems and information systems must be protected from unauthorized use and/or malicious attack that could result in loss of information, damage to critical applications, loss of revenue, and damage to our public image. Therefore, all remote access and mobile privileges for vi employees – and for wireless Internet access via hotspots – must employ only company-approved methods.

## 2. SCOPE

This Policy applies to all of vi’s employees, and to any contractors, volunteers, or agents who have remote access to vi’s IT and communication systems. For clarity, it applies whether or not those systems are accessed by vi owned devices, or made available through vi, including any access or use of those systems by employees through their own resources. These systems include, but are not limited to:

* Email systems and email accounts.
* Vi’s intranet.
* Internet access.
* Instant messaging services.
* Storage clouds.
* Telephones and voicemail systems, including landline and mobile telephones, and smartphones
* Printers, photocopiers and scanners.
* Fax machines.
* Computers, laptops and tablets.
* Computer networks and servers.
* Removable media devices \(including hard drives, flash drives, and external hard drives\), peripheral

  equipment, software, and any device or media capable of storing data.

* Cameras, video and audio recording equipment.

Any and all work performed for vi on the above noted systems, through a remote access connection of any kind, is covered by this Policy. Work can include \(but is not limited to\) email correspondence, web browsing, utilizing intranet resources, and any other company application used over the internet. Remote access is defined as any connection to vi’s IT and communications systems from off-site locations, such as an employee’s home, a hotel room, airports, cafés, satellite offices, wireless devices, etc.

This Policy is administered by the Technical Operations Manager, or designate.

## 3. REMOTE ACCESS PRIVILEGES

Given the nature of vi’s business, and the needs of its clients, most vi employees are granted remote access privileges. However, such access is limited to provide each employee with the resources he/she needs to fulfil his/her workplace duties and responsibilities. Vi implements security controls to limit remote access to only those resources which are essential to an employee’s duties and responsibilities.

Vi maintains the sole discretion to determine whether remote access privileges will be granted and reserves all rights to amend, suspend or discontinue such privileges at any time. All final decisions relating to access and ongoing privileges are made by the Operations Department.

In the event an employee requires additional remote access privileges for business purposes, which have not been assigned by vi, the employee must make a formal request to the Operations Department, in writing, stating in as much detail as possible, the specific additional access required, the reasons for the request, including an identification of a valid business purpose for the request. The Operations Department will evaluate the request and determine whether the request will be granted in its sole discretion.

Employees may use privately owned connections for business purposes, upon approval by the Operations Department. Prior to granting approval, the Operations Department must determine that the connection is secure and protected. However, the Operations Department cannot and will not technically support a third-party ISP connection or hotspot wireless ISP connection

Employees who remotely access vi IT and communication systems must continue to abide by all vi policies and procedures at all times, including but not limited to this Policy, the IT and Communications Systems Policy and the Information and Data Security Policy

## 4. WORKING FROM HOME

Although, vi makes all decisions regarding eligibility to work from home, should their duties and responsibilities make it practicable to do so, employees may make a formal request to work from home in accordance with this Policy. Requests can be made through vi’s intranet portal, and will be evaluated by vi on a case by case basis. Vi may consider a variety of factors in making its decision to approve the request. At minimum, vi will require satisfaction that:

* Completion of work away from the vi’s premises will not impact the completion of the employee’s duties or those of other employees;
* Completion of work away from vi’s premises is technically and operationally workable;
* Completion of work away from vi’s premises will not affect the delivery of vi services to clients; and
* Completion of work away from vi’s premises is economically feasible.

_**Any employees requesting to work from home as an accommodation for a health or medically related matter, should contact their supervisor and make a formal request for accommodation rather than a request to work from home under this policy.**_

## 5. REMOTE ACCESS PROCEDURES

Vi permits employees to access vi IT and communications systems remotely, so long as such access is in accordance with the following procedures. It is the responsibility of any employee with remote access privileges to ensure that their remote access connection remains as secure as the network access within the office. It is imperative that any remote access connection used to conduct vi business be utilized appropriately, responsibly, and ethically. Therefore, the following rules must be observed:

1. General remote access to vi’s network, from employees’ homes is permitted so long as such access is made through a vi VPN tunnel or other secured network approved by vi, and through/on company issued equipment only. For example, employees are not permitted to access vi’s network through personal laptops or tablets.
2. Employees must use secure remote access procedures including public/private key encrypted strong passwords in accordance with vi’s password policy, as set out in its IT and Communications Systems Policy. Employees agree to never disclose their passwords to anyone, including to family members, particularly if business work is conducted from home.
3. All remote computer equipment and devices used for business purposes, must incorporate reasonable physical security measures. Computers will have antivirus software installed as is deemed necessary by the Operations Department.
4. Employees are not permitted to access vi IT and communications systems from unsecured and/or public Wi-Fi networks, including those which are password protected, such as at a coffee shop or hotel. If a connection is needed in a public environment, employees should use a personal hotspot on their company provided cell phone.
5. Remote users using hotspots for wireless Internet access must ensure their devices are secured with a company-approved personal firewall, VPN, and any other security measure deemed necessary by the Operations Department.
6. Hotspot and remote users must disconnect wireless cards when not in use in order to mitigate attacks by hackers, wardrivers, and eavesdroppers.
7. Users must apply new passwords every business or personal trip where company data is being utilized over a hotspot wireless service, or when a company device is used for personal web browsing.
8. Any remote connection \(i.e. hotspot, ISDN, frame relay, etc.\) that is configured to access vi resources must adhere to vi authentication requirements. In addition, all hardware security configurations must be approved by the Operations Department.
9. Employees will make no modifications of any kind to the remote access connections or security measures implemented by vi without the express approval of the Operations Department. This includes, but is not limited to, split tunneling, dual homing, non-standard hardware or security configurations, or other mechanisms that bridge unsecure networks with vi’s network.
10. Employees with remote access privileges must ensure that their devices are not connected to any other network while connected to vi’s network via remote access.
11. Employees with remote access privileges must never use non-company email accounts \(e.g. gmail\) to conduct vi business.
12. No employee is to use internet access through company networks via remote connection for the purpose of illegal transactions, harassment, competitor interests, obscene behavior, or in violation of vi’s IT and Communications Systems Policy.
13. All remote access connections must include a “time-out” system. In accordance with vi’s security policies, remote access sessions will time-out after a maximum of 1 hour of inactivity. Time-outs will require the user to reconnect and re-authenticate in order to re-enter vi networks.
14. If a device used for remote access is damaged, lost, or stolen, the authorized user will be responsible for notifying the Operations Department immediately.
15. The remote access user also agrees to immediately report to the Operations Department, any incident or suspected incidents of unauthorized access to or disclosure of vi IT and communications systems.
16. Vi’s networks are monitored at all times and remote access users have no expectation of privacy when accessing vi’s IT and communications systems, even when such access is from home, or on personally owned devices. Vi records dates, times, duration of access, and other data, in order to identify unusual usage patterns or other suspicious activity, including to identify devices that may have been compromised by external parties.

## 6. EQUIPMENT AND TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT

The Company will determine, based on the employee’s duties and responsibilities and vi’s business needs, what equipment it will provide to employees who receive remote access privileges. Such equipment may include for example:

* Laptop computer.
* Tablet.
* Smartphone.
* Turbostick.
* Teleconferencing equipment.
* Anti-virus software.

Any equipment supplied by vi is to be used solely by the employee and for business purposes only, in accordance with vi’s IT and Communications Systems Policy. Vi will be responsible for repairing any vi equipment. However, the employee is responsible for any intentional damage. The employee must return all vi equipment and supplies when remote access privileges are suspended or terminated for any reason.

## 7. PHYSICAL SECURITY

Employees accessing vi IT and information systems remotely are responsible for securing from theft, tampering and damage, any devices used for work purposes.

As a general rule, employees must never leave their devises in an unsecured area. Never leave laptops or other devices unattended unless locked or otherwise secured. Do not leave devices or the bags containing them visible in a parked car or check them as baggage on airlines or other public transportation. Devices should not be left unattended in a vehicle overnight or for any extended periods of 4 hours or more, even if they are locked-up and not visible to the public \(in a trunk for example\).

Any vi equipment or confidential information used in connection with remote access activities remains subject to vi’s policies and procedures relevant to such matters, including vi’s Information and Data Security Policy and its IT and Communications Systems Policy.

## 8. EMERGENCIES AND UNEXPECTED BARRIERS TO OFFICE ACCESS

In accordance with vi’s Disaster Recovery Plan, all employees must take their company issues cell phones and laptops home with them each evening, so that they will be able to use them to access vi’s IT and communications systems remotely in the event of an emergency or other event that prevents temporary or permanent physical access to vi’s office.

## 9. CONSEQUENCES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY

All employees are required to read and comply with the terms of this policy at all times.

Any violation of this Policy may result in the termination of remote access privileges and may also be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for cause, in accordance with the vi’s Progressive Discipline Policy.

## 10. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEWS

The Technical Operations Manager, or designate is responsible for the administration of this policy. If employees have questions regarding this policy, or about remote access matters, that are not addressed in this policy, they may contact the Operations Department for more information.

In accordance with vi’s corporate policies, practices and procedures, this policy will be reviewed on at least an annual basis.

Vi expressly reserves the right to change, modify or delete any provisions of this Policy without notice, in the future.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING AND ACCEPTANCE

I, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \(print employee name\), acknowledge that on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \(date\), I received a copy of vi’s Remote Access Policy, and that I read it, understood it and agree to comply with it. I also acknowledge that I do not have any expectation of privacy in any content created, transmitted, received, accessed or stored on vi’s IT and communications systems.  


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Signed

